 Decades of research into the etiology of conduct disorder ( CD) has yet to yield a consensus on the existence of sex differences in underlying genetic and environmental influences. This may be partly due to the failure of many previous studies to make a distinction between non-aggressive and aggressive CD symptoms or test for potential developmental changes in sex differences in the etiology of conduct problems. To address these gaps , we fit a series of univariate and bivariate biometric sex-difference models to self-reported non-aggressive and aggressive CD symptoms in a community-based sample of twins ( N = 1548 , ages 9-17 year) , grouped into ages 9-13 and 14-17 years. Relative model fit was evaluated using the Bayesian Information Criterion ( BIC) , which favors parsimony , and by Chi square difference tests. The univariate sex-scalar model provided the best fit to the data for both non-aggressive and aggressive CD symptoms at ages 9-13 and 14-17 years. Thus , the same genetic and environmental factors influenced CD symptoms in both sexes , but the total variability was lower in females than males. At both ages , the heritability of non-aggressive CD symptoms was lower than heritability of aggressive CD symptoms , and shared environmental effects were only observed for non-aggressive CD symptoms. However , estimates for genetic and environmental factors could be not be constrained to be equal across age groups for either CD subtype , suggesting substantive developmental changes in the relative influence of genetic and environmental factors on individual differences in CD symptoms. For both subtypes , the heritability was larger , and shared environmental effect smaller , in the older age group than the younger age group. A bivariate quantitative sex differences model provided the best fit to the data at ages 9-13 years. Covariation between non-aggressive and aggressive CD symptoms was due to overlapping shared and non-shared environmental factors in males and females but the overall covariation was greater in males than females. In contrast , at ages 14-17 years , the sex-scalar bivariate model provided the best fit to the data , and covariation between non-aggressive and aggressive CD symptoms was due to overlapping genetic and non-shared environmental factors. Thus , the etiology of self-reported conduct disorder varied substantially by symptom type and age. However , quantitative sex differences were only apparent when the covariation between the two subtypes was considered.