 Home is a preferred place of death for many people; however , access to a home death may not be equitable. The impact of socioeconomic status on one 's ability to die at home has been documented , yet there remains little literature exploring mechanisms that contribute to this disparity. By exploring the experiences and insights of physicians who provide end-of-life care in the home , this study aims to identify the factors perceived to influence patients ' likelihood of home death and describe the mechanisms by which they interact with socioeconomic status. In this exploratory qualitative study , we conducted interviews with 9 physicians who provide home-based care at a specialized palliative care centre. Participants were asked about their experiences caring for patients at the end of life , focusing on factors believed to impact likelihood of home death with an emphasis on socioeconomic status , and opportunities for intervention. We relied on participants ' perceptions of SES , rather than objective measures. We used an inductive content analysis to identify and describe factors that physicians perceive to influence a patient 's likelihood of dying at home. Factors identified by physicians were organized into three categories: patient characteristics , physical environment and support network. Patient preference for home death was seen as a necessary factor. If this was established , participants suggested that having a strong support network to supplement professional care was critical to achieving home death. Finally , safe and sustainable housing were also felt to improve likelihood of home death. Higher SES was perceived to increase the likelihood of a desired home death by affording access to more resources within each of the categories. This included better health and health care understanding , a higher capacity for advocacy , a more stable home environment , and more caregiver support. SES was not perceived to be an isolated factor impacting likelihood of home death , but rather a means to address shortfalls in the three identified categories. Identifying the factors that influence ability is the first step in ensuring home death is accessible to all patients who desire it , regardless of socioeconomic status.