 Bile acids have been implicated in the development of digestive tract malignancy by epidemiological , clinical and animal studies. The growth and transformation signaling by most of the bile acids is thought to be related to the induced cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2) expression and increased production of prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2). The highly hydrophobic bile acids such as chenodeoxycholic acid ( CD) and deoxycholic acid can promote carcinogenesis and stimulate the invasion of colon cancer cells. On the contrary , ursodeoxycholic acid ( UDCA) , a less hydrophobic stereoisomer of CD , inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in colon cancer cells. We examined the effects of bile acid on human gastric cancer cells MKN-74. Early-passage human gastric cancer MKN-74 cells were used for drug treatment , preparation of whole cell lysates , subcellular extracts and Western blot analysis. The levels of PGE2 released by the cells were measured by enzyme inummoassay to indicate COX-2 enzymatic activity. Cellular invasion assay was performed in Boyden chamber. Exposure of CD led to activation of protein kinase C ( PKC) alpha , increased COX-2 expression and increased PGE2 synthesis. The induced COX-2 protein expression could be detected within 4 h exposure of 200 μM CD , and it was dose- and time-dependent. PGE2 is the product of COX-2 , and has been reported to cause tumor invasion and angiogenesis in animal study. Safingol ( SAF) , a PKC inhibitor , suppressed the COX-2 protein expression and PGE2 production by CD in MKN-74. Furthermore , UDCA suppressed PGE2 production by CD but did not affect COX-2 protein expression induced by CD. Using a Boyden chamber invasion assay , both SAF and UDCA impeded CD induced tumor invasiveness of MKN-74 by 30-50 %. Our results indicate that signaling of hydrophobic bile acid such as CD in gastric cancer cells is through PKC activation and COX-2 induction , which leads to increased cellular invasion. By perturbing the bile acid pool , UDCA attenuates CD-induced PGE2 synthesis and tumor invasiveness.