 Plant stress responses involve numerous changes at the molecular and cellular level and are regulated by highly complex signaling pathways. Studying protein-protein interactions ( PPIs) and the resulting networks is therefore becoming increasingly important in understanding these responses. Crucial in PPI networks are the so-called hubs or hub proteins , commonly defined as the most highly connected central proteins in scale-free PPI networks. However , despite their importance , a growing amount of confusion<symptom> and controversy seems to exist regarding hub protein identification , characterization and classification. In order to highlight these inconsistencies and stimulate further clarification , this review critically analyses the current knowledge on hub proteins in the plant interactome field. We focus on current hub protein definitions , including the properties generally seen as hub-defining , and the challenges and approaches associated with hub protein identification. Furthermore , we give an overview of the most important large-scale plant PPI studies of the last decade that identified hub proteins , pointing out the lack of overlap between different studies. As such , it appears that although major advances are being made in the plant interactome field , defining hub proteins is still heavily dependent on the quality , origin and interpretation of the acquired PPI data. Nevertheless , many hub proteins seem to have a reported role in the plant stress response , including transcription factors , protein kinases and phosphatases , ubiquitin proteasome system related proteins , ( co-) chaperones and redox signaling proteins. A significant number of identified plant stress hubs are however still functionally uncharacterized , making them interesting targets for future research. This review clearly shows the ongoing improvements in the plant interactome field but also calls attention to the need for a more comprehensive and precise identification of hub proteins , allowing a more efficient systems biology driven unraveling of complex processes , including those involved in stress responses.