 Both gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM) as well as overweight/obesity during pregnancy are risk factors for detrimental anthropometric and hormonal neonatal outcomes , identified to ` program ' adverse health predispositions later on. While overweight/obesity are major determinants of GDM , independent effects on critical birth outcomes remain unclear. Thus , the aim of the present study was to evaluate , in women with GDM , the relative/independent impact of overweight/obesity vs. altered glucose metabolism on newborn parameters. The prospective observational ` Early CHARITÉ ( EaCH) ' cohort study primarily focuses on early developmental origins of unfavorable health outcomes through pre- and/or early postnatal exposure to a ` diabetogenic/adipogenic ' environment. It includes 205 mother-child dyads , recruited between 2007 and 2010 , from women with treated GDM and delivery at the Clinic of Obstetrics , Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin , Germany. Recruitment , therapy , metabolite/hormone analyses , and data evaluation were performed according to standardized guidelines and protocols. This report specifically aimed to identify maternal anthropometric and metabolic determinants of anthropometric and critical hormonal birth outcomes in ` EaCH '. Group comparisons , Spearman 's correlations and unadjusted linear regression analyses initially confirmed that increased maternal prepregnancy body-mass-index ( BMI) is a significant factor for elevated birth weight , cord-blood insulin and leptin ( all P < 0.05). However , consideration of and adjustment for maternal glucose during late pregnancy showed that no maternal anthropometric parameter ( weight , BMI , gestational weight gain) remained significant ( all n.s.). In contrast , even after adjustment for maternal anthropometrics , third trimester glucose values ( fasting and postprandial glucose at 32nd and 36th weeks ' gestation , HbA1c in 3rd trimester and at delivery) , were clearly positively associated with critical birth outcomes ( all P < 0.05). Neither overweight/obesity nor gestational weight gain appear to be independent determinants of increased birth weight , insulin and leptin. Rather , 3rd trimester glycemia seems to be crucial for respective neonatal outcomes. Thus , gestational care and future research studies should greatly consider late pregnancy glucose in overweight/obese women with or without GDM , for evaluation of critical causes and interventional strategies against ` perinatal programming of diabesity ' in the offspring.