 Off-target oligoprobe 's interaction with partially complementary nucleotide sequences represents a problem for many bio-techniques. The goal of the study was to identify oligoprobe sequence characteristics that control the ratio between on-target and off-target hybridization. To understand the complex interplay between specific and genome-wide off-target ( cross-hybridization) signals , we analyzed a database derived from genomic comparison hybridization experiments performed with an Affymetrix tiling array. The database included two types of probes with signals derived from ( i) a combination of specific signal and cross-hybridization and ( ii) genomic cross-hybridization only. All probes from the database were grouped into bins according to their sequence characteristics , where both hybridization signals were averaged separately. For selection of specific probes , we analyzed the following sequence characteristics: vulnerability to self-folding , nucleotide composition bias , numbers of G nucleotides and GGG-blocks , and occurrence of probe 's k-mers in the human genome. Increases in bin ranges for these characteristics are simultaneously accompanied by a decrease in hybridization specificity-the ratio between specific and cross-hybridization signals. However , both averaged hybridization signals exhibit growing trends along with an increase of probes ' binding energy , where the hybridization specific signal increases significantly faster in comparison to the cross-hybridization. The same trend is evident for the S function , which serves as a combined evaluation of probe binding energy and occurrence of probe 's k-mers in the genome. Application of S allows extracting a larger number of specific probes , as compared to using only binding energy. Thus , we showed that high values of specific and cross-hybridization signals are not mutually exclusive for probes with high values of binding energy and S. In this study , the application of a new set of sequence characteristics allows detection of probes that are highly specific to their targets for array design and other bio-techniques that require selection of specific probes.