 Female sexual dysfunction affects 41 % of reproductive-age women worldwide , making it a highly prevalent medical issue. Predictors of female sexual dysfunction are multifaceted and vary from country to country. A synthesis of potential risk factors and protective factors may aid healthcare practitioners in identifying populations at risk , in addition to revealing modifiable factors to prevent sexual dysfunction among reproductive-age women. Observational studies which assessed the prevalence and predictors of female sexual dysfunction in reproductive-age women were systematically sought in relevant databases ( 2000-2014). Significant predictors were extracted from each included publication. A qualitative analysis of predictors was performed with a focus on types of sexual regimes and level of human development. One hundred thirty-five studies from 41 countries were included in the systematic review. The types of predictors varied according to the location of the study , the type of sexual regime and the level of gender inequality in that country/region. Consistently significant risk factors of female sexual dysfunction were: poor physical health , poor mental health , stress , abortion<disease><symptom> , genitourinary problems , female genital mutilation , relationship dissatisfaction , sexual abuse , and being religious. Consistently significant protective factors included: older age at marriage , exercising , daily affection , intimate communication , having a positive body image , and sex education. Some factors however had an unclear effect: age , education , employment , parity , being in a relationship , frequency of sexual intercourse , race , alcohol consumption , smoking and masturbation. The sexual and reproductive lives of women are highly impacted by female sexual dysfunction , and a number of biological , psychological and social factors play a role in the prevalence of sexual dysfunction. Healthcare professionals who work with women should be aware of the many risk factors for reproductive-age women. Future prevention strategies should aim to address modifiable factors , e.g. physical activity and access to sex education; international efforts in empowering women should continue.