 During visual exploration or free-view , gaze positioning is largely determined by the tendency to maximize visual saliency: more salient locations are more likely to be fixated. However , when visual input is completely irrelevant for performance , such as with non-visual tasks , this saliency maximization strategy may be less advantageous and potentially even disruptive for task-performance. Here , we examined whether visual saliency remains a strong driving force in determining gaze positions even in non-visual tasks. We tested three alternative hypotheses: a) That saliency is disadvantageous for non-visual tasks and therefore gaze would tend to shift away from it and towards non-salient locations; b) That saliency is irrelevant during non-visual tasks and therefore gaze would not be directed towards it but also not away-from it; c) That saliency maximization is a strong behavioral drive that would prevail even during non-visual tasks. Gaze position was monitored as participants performed visual or non-visual tasks while they were presented with complex or simple images. The effect of attentional demands was examined by comparing an easy non-visual task with a more difficult one. Exploratory behavior was evident , regardless of task difficulty , even when the task was non-visual and the visual input was entirely irrelevant. The observed exploratory behaviors included a strong tendency to fixate salient locations , central fixation bias and a gradual reduction in saliency for later fixations. These exploratory behaviors were spatially similar to those of an explicit visual exploration task but they were , nevertheless , attenuated. Temporal differences were also found: in the non-visual task there were longer fixations and later first fixations than in the visual task , reflecting slower visual sampling in this task. We conclude that in the presence of a rich visual environment , visual exploration is evident even when there is no explicit instruction to explore. Compared to visually motivated tasks , exploration in non-visual tasks follows similar selection mechanisms , but occurs at a lower rate. This is consistent with the view that the non-visual task is the equivalent of a dual-task: it combines the instructed task with an uninstructed , perhaps even mandatory , exploratory behavior.