 Medical education is undergoing robust curricular reform with several innovative models emerging. In this study , we examined current trends in 3-year Doctor of Medicine ( MD) education and place these programs in context. A survey was conducted among Deans of U.S. allopathic medical schools using structured phone interview regarding current availability of a 3-year MD pathway , and/or other variations in curricular innovation , within their institution. Those with 3-year programs answered additional questions. Data from 107 institutions were obtained ( 75 % survey response rate). The most common variation in length of medical education today is the accelerated 3-year pathway. Since 2010 , 9 medical schools have introduced parallel 3-year MD programs and another 4 are actively developing such programs. However , the total number of students in 3-year MD tracks remains small ( n = 199 students , or 0.2 % total medical students). Family medicine and general internal medicine are the most common residency programs selected. Benefits of 3-year MD programs generally include reduction in student debt , stability of guaranteed residency positions , and potential for increasing physician numbers in rural/underserved areas. Drawbacks include concern about fatigue/burnout , difficulty in providing guaranteed residency positions , and additional expense in teaching 2 parallel curricula. Four vignettes of alternative innovative and relevant curricular initiatives are also presented in order to place 3-year MD programs in a broader context of medical education reform in the U.S. Three-year MD pathways are the most common accelerated alternative available at a small number of medical schools for highly selected students. Long-term evaluation of these programs will be essential to determine if these programs are meeting their goals ( e.g. , increasing the number of physicians in rural/underserved areas). Benefits and shortcomings of such programs should be carefully examined when considering this approach , or others described , as part of MD curricular options designed to individualize medical education.