 Consolidated bioprocessing ( CBP) is a cost-effective approach for the conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to biofuels and biochemicals. The enzymatic conversion of cellulose to glucose requires the synergistic action of three types of enzymes: exoglucanases , endoglucanases and β-glucosidases. The thermophilic , hemicellulolytic Geobacillus thermodenitrificans T12 was shown to harbor desired features for CBP , although it lacks the desired endo and exoglucanases required for the conversion of cellulose. Here , we report the expression of both endoglucanase and exoglucanase encoding genes by G. thermodenitrificans T12 , in an initial attempt to express cellulolytic enzymes that complement the enzymatic machinery of this strain. A metagenome screen was performed on 73 G. thermodenitrificans strains using HMM profiles of all known CAZy families that contain endo and/or exoglucanases. Two putative endoglucanases , GE39 and GE40 , belonging to glucoside hydrolase family 5 ( GH5) were isolated and expressed in both E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> and G. thermodenitrificans T12. Structure modeling of GE39 revealed a folding similar to a GH5 exo-1,3-β-glucanase from S.<pathogen> cerevisiae<pathogen>. However , we determined GE39 to be a β-xylosidase having pronounced activity towards p-nitrophenyl-β-D-xylopyranoside. Structure modelling of GE40 revealed its protein architecture to be similar to a GH5 endoglucanase from B. halodurans , and its endoglucanase activity was confirmed by enzymatic activity against 2-hydroxyethylcellulose , carboxymethylcellulose and barley β-glucan. Additionally , we introduced expression constructs into T12 containing Geobacillus sp. 70PC53 endoglucanase gene celA and both endoglucanase genes ( M1 and M2) from Geobacillus sp.. WSUCF1. Finally , we introduced expression constructs into T12 containing the C. thermocellum exoglucanases celK and celS genes and the endoglucanase celC gene. We identified a novel G. thermodenitrificans β-xylosidase ( GE39) and a novel endoglucanase ( GE40) using a metagenome screen based on multiple HMM profiles. We successfully expressed both genes in E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> and functionally expressed the GE40 endoglucanase in G. thermodenitrificans T12. Additionally , the heterologous production of active CelK , a C. thermocellum derived exoglucanase , and CelA , a Geobacillus derived endoglucanase , was demonstrated with strain T12. The native hemicellulolytic activity and the heterologous cellulolytic activity described in this research provide a good basis for the further development of G. thermodenitrificans T12 as a host for consolidated bioprocessing.