 Human Papilloma Virus ( HPV) vaccine was introduced in Bangladesh through the arrangement of a demonstration project in Gazipur district in 2016 , targeting grade five female students and non-school going girls ( age range 10-12 years). HPV vaccination is expected to be eventually included in the nationwide immunization program if the demonstration project is successful. However , introduction and implementation of such a vaccination program raises various ethical concerns. This review paper illustrates a step by step assessment of the ethical concerns surrounding the HPV vaccination implementation in Bangladesh considering specific elements in administering and conducting the program as well as the intended results. Policy-makers , vaccine implementers , vaccine recipients , and an ethics specialist in Bangladesh were interviewed. Electronic database and websites have also been reviewed for relevant published literature and government statements. This program imparted inadequate knowledge about HPV and cervical cancer to the recipients and participants. There was lack of autonomous and informed choice of the girls and their parents about taking the vaccine. The program did not have any follow-up plan for the adverse effects in the long run. The impact of a female-only strategy in the larger societal context was overlooked. There was lack of awareness among the implementers about safeguarding the ethical issues pertaining to HPV vaccination. Adolescent health education imparted in the scope of the vaccination program should contain adequate information about HPV , its mode of transmission , risk factors along with the importance of secondary prevention despite primary prevention. Adolescent boys should be given HPV related health education as well. The right of making informed choice should be appreciated and respected. More ethical discussion and debate should be done among the public health professionals of Bangladesh in order to increase awareness about ethical issues related to human health.