 Trees are crucial for sustaining life on our planet. Forests and land devoted to tree crops do not only supply essential edible products to humans and animals , but also additional goods such as paper or wood. They also prevent soil erosion , support microbial , animal , and plant biodiversity , play key roles in nutrient and water cycling processes , and mitigate the effects of climate change acting as carbon dioxide sinks. Hence , the health of forests and tree cropping systems is of particular significance. In particular , soil/rhizosphere/root-associated microbial communities ( known as microbiota) are decisive to sustain the fitness , development , and productivity of trees. These benefits rely on processes aiming to enhance nutrient assimilation efficiency ( plant growth promotion) and/or to protect against a number of ( a) biotic constraints. Moreover , specific members of the microbial communities associated with perennial tree crops interact with soil invertebrate food webs , underpinning many density regulation mechanisms. This review discusses belowground microbiota interactions influencing the growth of tree crops. The study of tree- ( micro) organism interactions taking place at the belowground level is crucial to understand how they contribute to processes like carbon sequestration , regulation of ecosystem functioning , and nutrient cycling. A comprehensive understanding of the relationship between roots and their associate microbiota can also facilitate the design of novel sustainable approaches for the benefit of these relevant agro-ecosystems. Here , we summarize the methodological approaches to unravel the composition and function of belowground microbiota , the factors influencing their interaction with tree crops , their benefits and harms , with a focus on representative examples of Biological Control Agents ( BCA) used against relevant biotic constraints of tree crops. Finally , we add some concluding remarks and suggest future perspectives concerning the microbiota-assisted management strategies to sustain tree crops.