 The inhibitory effects of morphine and the stimulatory influence of kisspeptin signaling have been demonstrated on gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH)/ luteinizing hormone ( LH) release. Hypothalamic kisspeptin is involved in relaying the environmental and metabolic information to reproductive axis. In the present study , the role of kisspeptin/ GPR54 signaling system was investigated on relaying the inhibitory influences of morphine on LH hormone secretion. In this experimental study , 55 wistar male rats weighing 230-250 g were sub-grouped in 11 groups ( in each group n = 5) receiving saline , kisspeptin ( 1 nmol) , peptide234 ( P234 , 1 nmol) , morphine ( 5 mg/kg) , naloxone ( 2 mg/kg) , kisspeptin/P234 , morphine/naloxone , kisspeptin/morphine , kisspeptin/naloxone , P234/morphine or P234/naloxone respectively. Blood samples were collected via tail vein. Mean plasma ( LH) concentrations and mean relative KiSS1 or GPR54 mRNA levels were determined by radioimmunoassay ( RIA) and real time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR) , respectivwely. Morphine significantly decreased mean plasma LH concentration and mean relative KiSS1 gene expression compared to saline; while it did not significantly decrease mean relative GPR54 gene expression compared to saline. Naloxone significant increased mean LH level and mean relative KiSS1 gene expression compared to saline; while it did not significantly increase mean relative GPR54 gene expression compared to saline. Injections of kisspeptin plus morphine significantly increased mean LH concentration compared to saline or morphine , while simultaneous infusions of them significantly declined mean plasma LH level compared to kisspeptin. In kisspeptin/naloxone group mean plasma LH level was significantly increased compared to saline or naloxone. Co-administration of P234/morphine significantly decreased mean LH concentration compared to saline. Down regulation of KiSS1 gene expression may be partly involved in the mediating the inhibitory effects of morphine on reproductive axis.