 The incidence of complications and mortality following open-heart surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass ( CPB) is associated with the severity of the myocardial injury that occurs during surgery. Hydrogen-rich solution ( HRS) may prevent antioxidant stress and inhibit apoptosis and inflammation<symptom>. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of HRS on CPB-induced myocardial injury , and to investigate its potential regulation of the Janus-activated kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( JAK2/STAT3) pathway. The HRS treatment resulted in the significant upregulation of malonyl dialdehyde ( MDA) and myeloperoxidase ( MPO) , whilesuperoxide dismutase ( SOD) levels were significantly downregulated , compared with the Sham group ( P < 0.05). Additionally , HRS treatment improved myocardial injury , and decreased the expression levels of cardiac troponins , heart-type fatty acid binding protein , interleukin ( IL) -1 β , IL-6 , tumor necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF)- α , MDA and MPO , and increased SOD release in CPB rats ( P < 0.05). Additionally , in the CPB group without the HRS treatment , the expression levels of B-cell lymphoma ( Bcl) -2 , JAK2 , phospho-JAK2 ( p-JAK2) , STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 ( p-STAT3) were significantly decreased , and Bax was significantly increased , compared with the Sham group ( P < 0.05). By contrast , compared with the CPB group , the expression levels of B-cell lymphoma 2 ( Bcl-2) , JAK2 , phosphorylated ( p)- JAK2 , STAT3 and p-STAT3 in the HRS group were significantly increased , and Bcl-2-associated X protein expression was significantly decreased ( P < 0.05). In JAK2 knockdown experiments using siRNA , HRS treatment following hypoxia/reoxygenation also significantly increased the viability of myocardial cells , decreased the rate of myocardial cell apoptosis , elevated the levels of SOD and suppressed the release of MDA and lactate dehydrogenase in the control siRNA and CPB groups ( P < 0.05). Furthermore , JAK2 siRNA attenuated these protective effects of HRS ( P < 0.05 vs. control siRNA , HRS and CPB groups). Additionally , the results demonstrated that the HRS treatment significantly increased the expression levels of p-JAK2 , p-STAT3 and Bcl-2 in myocardial cells following hypoxia and decreased Bax expression in the control siRNA and CPB groups ( P < 0.05). In addition , JAK2 siRNA was determined to attenuate these effects of HRS ( P < 0.05 vs. control siRNA , HRS and CPB groups). Taken together , these results indicated that HRS may alleviate CPB-induced myocardial injury , inhibit myocardial cell apoptosis and protect myocardial cells through regulation of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway.