 Injury is the leading cause of death and acquired disability in children. Primary care providers routinely provide age-appropriate injury prevention ( IP) counselling during healthcare visits. The objective was to review evaluations of the effectiveness of office-based paediatric IP counselling research. This review identified studies from July 1991 to June 2016 of children < 5 years and their caretakers to determine the effectiveness of office-based counselling on IP knowledge , behaviours and outcomes. Studies were included if they had: ( 1) an intervention for a family with a child < 5 years of age; ( 2) an unintentional injury mechanism addressed during counselling; ( 3) one or more mechanisms recommended to be discussed for children < 5 years in the 2007American Academy of Pediatrics Policy Statement; ( 4) counselling occurring in the office setting; ( 5) an assessment of an outcome ( eg , change in knowledge , behaviour or injury occurrences); and ( 6) English-language publication. Study characteristics ( whether the study was controlled , randomised and/or blinded) , target safety behaviours , the sample size , outcomes assessed ( injuries , behaviour changes and/or education changes) and demonstrated effects were summarised. Sixteen articles met inclusion criteria. Twelve articles were randomised controlled trials , three were non-randomised trials and one was a pretest and post-test study. Fourteen articles measured a change in knowledge or reported behaviour , four included observed behaviour change and five measured change in injury outcomes. Thirteen of the 16 studies had positive effects demonstrated for certain outcomes , including for fall , poisoning<disease> , burn , fire , traffic injury and drowning prevention , while 10 showed no differences between study groups for other outcomes. Published outcomes-based IP-related counselling research in the primary care setting for young children is infrequent , and additional research is necessary to further describe the effectiveness of these primary prevention efforts.