 The world is urbanizing rapidly; more than half the world 's population now lives in urban areas , leading to significant transition in lifestyles and social behaviours globally. While offering many advantages , urban environments also concentrate health risks and introduce health hazards for the poor. In Bangladesh , although many public policies are directed towards equity and protecting people 's rights , these are not comprehensively and inclusively applied in ways that prioritize the health rights of citizens. The country is thus facing many issues that raise moral and ethical concerns. A narrative literature review was conducted between October 2016 and November 2017 on issues related to social justice , health , and human rights in urban Bangladesh. The key questions discussed here are: i) ethical dilemmas and inclusion of the urban poor to pursue social justice; and ii) the ethical obligations and moral responsibilities of the state and non-state sectors in serving Bangladesh 's urban poor. Using a Rawlsian theory of equality of opportunity to ensure social justice , we identified key health-related ethical issues in the country 's rapidly changing urban landscape , especially among the poor. We examined ethical dilemmas in Bangladesh 's health system through the rural-urban divide and the lack of coordination among implementing agencies. The unregulated profusion of the private sector and immoral practices of service providers result in high out-of-pocket expenditures for urban poor , leading to debt and further impoverishment. We also highlight policy and programmatic gaps , as well as entry points for safeguarding the right to health for Bangladeshi citizens. The urban health system in Bangladesh needs a reform in which state and non-state actors should work together , understanding and acknowledging their moral responsibilities for improving the health of the urban poor by engaging multiple sectors. The social determinants of health should be taken into account when formulating policies and programs to achieve universal health coverage and ensure social justice for the urban poor in Bangladesh.