 Even in practices with a comprehensive appointment system a minority of patients walks in without prior notice , sometimes causing problems for practice service quality. We aimed to explore differences between patients consulting primary care practices with and without appointment. Consecutive patients visiting five primary care practices without an appointment and following patients with an appointment were asked to fill in a four-page questionnaire addressing socio-demographic characteristics , the reason for encounter , urgency of seeing a physician , depressive , somatic and anxiety<symptom> symptoms , personality traits , and satisfaction with the practice. Physicians also documented the reason for encounter and assessed the urgency. Data were analyzed using univariate and multivariate methods. Two hundred fifty-one patients without and 250 patients with appointment participated. Patients without appointment were significantly younger ( mean age 44 vs. 50 years) and reported less often chronic<disease> diseases<disease> ( 29 % vs. 45 %). Also , reasons for encounter differed ( e.g. , 27 % vs. 16 % with a respiratory problem). Patients ' ratings of urgency did not differ between groups ( p = 0.46) , but physicians rated urgency higher among patients without appointment ( p < 0.001). In logistic regression analyses younger age , male gender , absence of chronic<disease> disease<disease> , positive screening for at least one mental disorder , low values on the personality trait openness for experience , a high urgency rating by the physician , and a respiratory or musculoskeletal problem as reason for encounter were significantly associated with a higher likelihood of being a patient without appointment. In this study , younger age and a high urgency rating by physicians were the variables most consistently associated with the likelihood of being a patient without appointment. Overall , differences between patients seeking general practices with a comprehensive appointment system without prior notice and patients with appointments were relatively minor.