 It is very rare but challenging to perform emergency airway management for accidental extubation in a patient whose head and neck are fixed in the prone position when urgently turning the patient to the supine position would be unsafe. The authors hypothesized that tracheal intubation with a videolaryngoscope would allow effective airway rescue in this situation compared with a supraglottic airway device and designed a randomized crossover manikin study to test this hypothesis. The authors compared airway rescue performances of the 3 devices-the ProSeal laryngeal mask airway ( PLMA; Teleflex Medical , Westmeath , Ireland) as a reference; the Pentax AWS ( AWS; Nihon Kohden , Tokyo , Japan) as a channeled blade-type videolaryngoscope; and the McGRATH videolaryngoscope ( McGRATH; Medtronic , Minneapolis , MN) as a nonchanneled blade type in a manikin fixed to the operating table in the prone position. Twenty-one anesthesiologists performed airway management on the prone manikin with the 3 devices , and the time required for intubation/ventilation and the success rates were recorded. The median ( range) intubation/ventilation times with the PLMA , AWS , and McGRATH were 24.5 ( 13.5-89.5) s , 29.9 ( 17.1-79.8) s , and 46.7 ( 21.9-211.7) s , respectively. There was no significant difference in intubation/ventilation times between the PLMA and AWS. The AWS permitted significantly faster tracheal intubation than did the McGRATH ( P = 0.006). The success rates with the PLMA ( 100 %) and AWS ( 100 %) were significantly greater than that with the McGRATH ( 71.4 %). Airway management performance of the PLMA and AWS was comparable between devices and better than that of the McGRATH in the prone position. Considering that tracheal intubation can provide a more secure airway and more stable ventilation than the PLMA , re-intubation with a channeled blade-type videolaryngoscope such as the AWS may be a useful method of airway rescue for accidental extubation in patients in the prone position.