 In 2012 , Nigeria 's Federal Ministry of Health published its National Strategic Framework for the Elimination of Obstetric Fistula<disease> ( NSFEOF) , 2011-2015. The framework has since lapsed and there is no tangible evidence that the goal of eliminating obstetric fistula<disease> was met. To further inform future policy directions on obstetric fistula<disease> in Nigeria , this paper explores how the NSFEOF conceptualized obstetric fistula<disease> and its related issues , including child marriage and early childbearing. A critical discourse analysis of the policy was performed. We examined four policies in addition to the strategic framework: the Nigerian constitution; the Marriage Act; the Matrimonial Causes Act; and the National Reproductive Health Policy. We used the three phases of critical discourse analysis: textual analysis , analysis of discourse practice , and analysis of discursive events as instances of sociocultural practice. The analysis demonstrates that , despite its title , the policy document focuses on reduction rather than elimination of obstetric fistula<disease>. The overall orientation of the policy is downstream , with minimal focus on prevention. The policy language suggests victim blaming. Furthermore , the extent to which subnational stakeholders in government and civil society were engaged in decision-making process for developing this policy is ambiguous. Although the policy is ostensibly based on principles of social justice and equity , several rhetorical positions suggest that the Nigerian constitutional environment and justice systems make no real provisions to protect the reproductive rights of girls in accordance with the United Nations ' `` 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. '' This analysis establishes that the Nigerian constitution , justice environment and the obstetric fistula<disease> policy itself do not demonstrate clear commitment to eradicating obstetric fistula<disease>. Specifically , a clear commitment to eradicating obstetric fistula<disease> would see the constitution and Marriage Act of Nigeria specify an age of consent that is consistent with the agenda to prevent obstetric fistula<disease>. Additionally , a policy to end obstetric fistulas<disease> in Nigeria must purposefully address the factors creating barrier to women 's access to quality maternal healthcare services. Future policies and programs to eliminate obstetric fistulas<disease> should include perspectives of nurses , midwives , researchers and , women 's interest groups.