 A decision-analytic model was developed to study the impact of induction regimens vincristine , adriamycin , dexamethasone ( VAD); thalidomide , dexamethasone ( TD); and bortezomib , dexamethasone ( BorD) , followed by autologous stem cell transplantation ( ASCT) for treating multiple myeloma ( MM) patients in Macedonia. Additionally , a cost-effectiveness analysis ( CEA) of treatment sequences to predict health effects and costs of different treatment sequences was performed. Model strategies were based on a previously published study for treating patients with MM in Macedonia. The data on disease progression and treatment effectiveness were obtained from the published reports of randomized clinical trials ( GIMEMA M-B02005 , IFM 2005-01). Utility parameters were extracted from the literature. To compare treatment combinations , a decision tree model was developed. Additionally , a cost analysis for one-time per-protocol costs was performed from a Macedonian national health care perspective. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ( ICERs)/ quality-adjusted life years ( QALYs) gained for 1- , 10- , and 20-year time horizons were determined. Costs and health outcomes were discounted to evaluate the effects of time in the model. The one-time costs of BorD ( EUR 5,656) were higher compared to VAD ( EUR 303) and TD ( EUR 329) , increasing the overall costs for BorD. Thus , the BorD combination dominated in the baseline results ( 1 and 10 years) and the ICER for TD vs. VAD was EUR 7,564/ QALY ( 20 years , undiscounted model). However , in the discounted 20-year model , BorD showed an ICER of EUR 138,747/ QALY gained for BorD vs. TD. The CEA performed indicated that considering 1-year time horizon costs , VAD may be a cost-effective alternative vs. TD or BorD. However , for the longer period ( 10 or 20 years) including the discounting of future costs and outcomes , the TD and BorD combinations showed higher health benefits in terms of QALYs and more cost-effective vs. VAD. These results should be considered as supportive evidence by decision-makers and providers when deciding on the most cost-effective induction treatment strategy prior to ASCT in MM patients.