 Since the mid-1980s , there has been a gradual ethical drift in the provision of maternal care in African health facilities in general , and in Cameroon in particular , despite government efforts. In fact , in Cameroon , an increasing number of caregivers are reportedly not providing compassionate care in maternity services. Consequently , many women , particularly the financially vulnerable , experience numerous difficulties in accessing these health services. In this article , we highlight the unequal access to care in public maternity services in Cameroon in general and the Noun Division in particular. For this study , in addition to documentary review , two qualitative data collection techniques were used: direct observation and individual interviews. Following the field work , the observation data were categorized and analyzed to assess their relevance and significance in relation to the topics listed in the observation checklist. Interviews were recorded using a dictaphone; they were subsequently transcribed and the data categorized and coded. After this stage , an analysis grid was constructed for content analysis of the transcripts , to study the frequency of topics addressed during the interviews , as well as divergences and convergences among the respondents. The results of this data analysis showed that money has become the driving force in service provision. As such , it is the patient 's economic capital that counts. Considered `` clients '' , pregnant women without sufficient financial resources wait long hours in corridors; some die in pain under the indifferent gaze of the professionals who are supposed to take care of them. In sharp contrast , the findings revealed that financially privileged patients are able to bribe caregivers to attract their favour and obtain prompt , careful , and effective care. These ethical abuses observed in the Noun public health facilities drive women to use , from the beginning of their pregnancies to the delivery , only healthcare delivered by traditional health attendants.