 Cancer cells evolve in the tumor microenvironment , which is now well established as an integral part of the tumor and a determinant player in cancer cell adaptation and resistance to anti-cancer therapies. Despite the remarkable and fairly rapid progress over the past two decades regarding our understanding of the role of the tumor microenvironment in cancer development , its precise contribution to cancer resistance is still fragmented. This is mainly related to the complexity of the `` tumor ecosystem '' and the diversity of the stromal cell types that constitute the tumor microenvironment. Emerging data indicate that several factors , such as hypoxic stress , activate a plethora of resistance mechanisms , including autophagy , in tumor cells. Hypoxia-induced autophagy in the tumor microenvironment also activates several tumor escape mechanisms , which effectively counteract anti-tumor immune responses mediated by natural killer and cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Therefore , strategies aiming at targeting autophagy in cancer cells in combination with other therapeutic strategies have inspired significant interest to overcome immunological tolerance and promote tumor regression. However , a number of obstacles still hamper the application of autophagy inhibitors in clinics. First , the lack of selectivity of the current pharmacological inhibitors of autophagy makes difficult to draw a clear statement about its effective contribution in cancer. Second , autophagy has been also described as an important mechanism in tumor cells involved in presentation of antigens to T cells. Third , there is a circumstantial evidence that autophagy activation in some innate immune cells may support the maturation of these cells , and it is required for their anti-tumor activity. In this review , we will address these aspects and discuss our current knowledge on the benefits and the drawbacks of targeting autophagy in the context of anti-tumor immunity. We believe that it is important to resolve these issues to predict the use of autophagy inhibitors in combination with immunotherapies in clinical settings.