 Kalmia angustifolia is a boreal ericaceous shrub that can rapidly spread on black spruce forest<disease> cutovers in eastern Canada , where CPRS ( i.e. Cutting with Protection of Regeneration and Soils '') is practiced. The proliferation of Kalmia often coincides with a reduction in the growth rate of regenerating black spruce seedlings. We report on a study where we compared the local effects of Kalmia and black spruce seedling patches ( i.e. two types of `` Vegetation '') on chemical and biochemical soil properties in CPRS cutovers within mesic spruce-moss and xeric spruce-lichen ecosystems , as well as in four mature spruce-moss forests ( i.e. three `` Site Types ''). Results from 13C-CPMAS-NMR revealed lower O-alkyl C ( i.e. carbohydrates) , higher aromatic C ( i.e. lignin and other phenolics) and higher carbonyl-C ( i.e. amide-C and carboxyl groups) in spruce-moss than in spruce-lichen forest<disease> floors ( F-horizon). In spite of these distinctions , we observed only a small number of Site Type x Vegetation interactions controlling soil properties. Vegetation had a significant effect on ten forest<disease> floor properties. Most notably , Kalmia patches had higher concentrations of condensed tannins and lower mineral N cycling. On the other hand , Site Type had a relatively greater effect on the deeper podzolic-B horizons , where mineral N and microbial activity were higher in mature spruce-moss forests than in the cutovers. Green<symptom> and senescent Kalmia leaves collected at these sites had higher N , tannin and phenolic concentrations than green and senescent spruce needles. A 25 month litter bag study found lower decomposition of Kalmia leaf litter in spruce patches on spruce-lichen cutovers compared to spruce patches on spruce-moss cutovers , or to Kalmia patches on spruce-lichen cutovers. Given that black spruce seedlings obtain most of their nutrients from the forest<disease> floor , our results suggest that CPRS may have long-term negative effects on black spruce forest<disease> productivity if the spread of Kalmia is left unchecked.