 Radioresistance is one of the main determinants of treatment outcome in oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC) , but its prediction is difficult. Several authors aimed to establish radioresistant OSCC cell lines to identify genes with altered expression in response to radioresistance. The development of OSCC is a multistep carcinogenic process that includes activation of several oncogenes and inactivation of tumour suppressor genes. TGM-3 is a tumour suppressor gene and contributes to carcinogenesis process. The aim of this study was to estimate serum and tissue expression of TGM-3 and its correlation with clinico-pathological factors and overall survival in patients of OSCC undergoing chemo-radiotherapy. Tissue expression was observed in formalin fixed tissue biopsies of 96 cases of OSCC and 32 healthy controls were subjected to immunohistochemistry ( IHC) by using antibody against TGM-3 and serum level was estimated by ELISA method. mRNA expression was determined by using Real-Time PCR. Patients were followed for 2 year for chemo radiotherapy response. In OSCC , 76.70 % cases and in controls 90.62 % were positive for TGM-3 IHC expression. TGM-3 expression was cytoplasmic and nuclear staining expressed in keratinized layer , stratum granulosum<pathogen> and stratum spinosum<pathogen> in controls and tumour cells. Mean serum TGM-3 in pre chemo-radiotherapy OSCC cases were 1304.83 ± 573.55 , post chemo-radiotherapy samples were 1530.64 ± 669.33 and controls were 1869.16 ± 1377.36 , but difference was significant in pre chemo-radiotherapy samples as compared to controls ( p < 0.018). This finding was also confirmed by real- time PCR analysis in which down regulation ( -7.92 fold change) of TGM-3 in OSCC as compared to controls. TGM-3 expression was significantly associated with response to chemo-radiotherapy treatment ( p < 0.007) and overall survival ( p < 0.015). Patents having higher level of TGM-3 expression have good response to chemo-radiotherapy and also have better overall survival. TGM-3 may serve as a candidate biomarker for responsiveness to chemo-radiotherapy treatment in OSCC patients.