 C-reactive protein ( CRP) is a member of the pentraxin superfamily that is widely recognized as a marker of inflammatory reactions and cardiovascular risk in humans. Recently , a growing body of data is emerging , which demonstrates that CRP is not only a marker of inflammation<symptom> but also acts as a direct mediator of inflammatory reactions and the innate immune response. Here , we critically review the various lines of evidence supporting the concept of a pro-inflammatory `` CRP system. '' The CRP system consists of a functionally inert circulating pentameric form ( pCRP) , which is transformed to its highly pro-inflammatory structural isoforms , pCRP * and ultimately to monomeric CRP ( mCRP). While retaining an overall pentameric structure , pCRP * is structurally more relaxed than pCRP , thus exposing neoepitopes important for immune activation and complement fixation. Thereby , pCRP * shares its pro-inflammatory properties with the fully dissociated structural isoform mCRP. The dissociation of pCRP into its pro-inflammatory structural isoforms and thus activation of the CRP system occur on necrotic , apoptotic , and ischemic cells , regular β-sheet structures such as β-amyloid , the membranes<symptom> of activated cells ( e.g. , platelets , monocytes , and endothelial cells) , and/or the surface of microparticles , the latter by binding to phosphocholine. Both pCRP * and mCRP can cause activation of platelets , leukocytes , endothelial cells , and complement. The localization and deposition of these pro-inflammatory structural isoforms of CRP in inflamed tissue appear to be important mediators for a range of clinical conditions , including ischemia/reperfusion ( I/R) injury of various organs , cardiovascular disease , transplant rejection , Alzheimer 's disease , and age-related macular degeneration. These findings provide the impetus to tackle the vexing problem of innate immunity response by targeting CRP. Understanding the `` activation process '' of CRP will also likely allow the development of novel anti-inflammatory drugs , thereby providing potential new immunomodulatory therapeutics in a broad range of inflammatory<disease> diseases<disease>.