 Accurate quantification of the intact proteins , antibodies or peptides and their impurities without interaction to silanols of HPLC column. Hydroxypropyl ß Cyclodextrin ( HPCD) is added in the mobile phase at different concentrations. Different commercial SEC-HPLC columns and biologics with a molecular weight ranging from 5.8 kDa to 150kDa were assessed with and without cyclodextrin. Addition of non-ionic sugars such as Hydroxypropyl ß Cyclodextrin in the mobile phase , resulted improved peak performance such as theoretical plates , peak resolution , peak width , peak height , and improved quantification of aggregates in biologics such as antibodies Humira and Actemra , and peptides such as insulin. There is an increase in peak height , reduced retention time , increased plate and reduced peak width with increasing concentration of cyclodextrin studied. High ionic strength , basic amino acids such as arginine , organic solvents ( with a concentration low enough not to precipitate protein) , sodium perchlorate and ion pairing agents in the mobile phase used for separation of peptides , proteins and antibodies to prevent silanol interaction. These commonly used solutions are not always successful , as they not only interact with the biologic , but are sometimes , not compatible. The non-ionic cyclodextrin itself does not cause protein aggregation but prevents the nonspecific binding or interaction of protein itself and thereby allowing for improved resolution , and accurate quantification of aggregates in antibodies , and peptides. The data on the separation in presence of cyclodextrin in the mobile phase showed higher peak resolution , improved peak shape , accurate apparent molecular weight , improved efficiency , and less peak tailing for biological products. Hydroxypropyl ß Cyclodextrin in the mobile phase , resulted improved SEC-HPLC resolution , and quantitation of aggregates in biologics by preventing the interaction of biologics to silanol of the commercial SEC-HPLC columns.