 In protected areas around the world , wildlife habituate to humans and human infrastructure , potentially resulting in human-wildlife conflict , and leading to trophic disruptions through excess herbivory and disconnection of predators from prey. For large species that threaten human safety , wildlife managers sometimes attempt to reverse habituation with aversive conditioning. This technique associates people as a conditioned stimulus with a negative , unconditioned stimulus , such as pain or fright , to increase wariness and prevent the need for lethal wildlife management. Resistance to aversive conditioning by some habituated individuals often results in more frequent conditioning events by managers , but there are few studies of conditioning frequency with which to evaluate the usefulness of this management response. We evaluated the effect of conditioning frequency on the wariness of elk ( Cervus canadensis<pathogen>) by subjecting marked individuals to predator-resembling chases by people over a period of three months. In that time , animals were subjected to conditioning a total of 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , or 9 times which we analyzed as both an ordinal variable and a binary one divided into low ( 3-5) and high ( 6-9) conditioning frequencies. We measured wariness before , during , and after the conditioning period using flight response distances from an approaching researcher. During the conditioning period , overall wariness increased significantly for elk in both treatment groups , although the increase was significantly greater in individuals subjected to high conditioning frequencies. However in the post-conditioning period , wariness gains also declined most in the high-frequency group , equating to more rapid extinction of learned behaviour. Across all treatment frequencies , rapid changes in flight responses also characterized the individuals with the lowest wariness at the beginning of the study period , suggesting that individuals with greater behavioural flexibility are more likely to habituate to both people and their attempts to change wariness via aversive conditioning. Together , our results imply that aversive conditioning may be most effective at intermediate frequencies and that its utility might be further increased with proactive assessment of individual personalities in habituated wildlife.