 Improving the hydrolytic performance of hemicellulases to degrade lignocellulosic biomass is of considerable importance for second-generation biorefinery. Xylanase , as the crucial hemicellulase , must be thermostable and have high activity for its potential use in the bioethanol industry. To obtain excellent xylanase candidates , it is necessary to understand the structure-function relationships to provide a meaningful reference to improve the enzyme properties. This study aimed to investigate the catalytic mechanism of a highly active hyperthermophilic xylanase variant , XYL10C-ΔN , for hemicellulose degradation. By removing the N-terminal 66 amino acids , the variant XYL10C-ΔN showed a 1.8-fold improvement in catalytic efficiency and could hydrolyze corn stover more efficiently in hydrolysis of corn stover; however , it retained similar thermostability to the wild-type XYL10C. Based on the crystal structures of XYL10C-ΔN and its complex with xylobiose , Glu175 located on loop 3 was found to be specific to GH10 xylanases and probably accounts for the excellent enzyme properties by interacting with Lys135 and Met137 on loop 2. Site-saturation mutagenesis confirmed that XYL10C-ΔN with glutamate acid at position 175 had the highest catalytic efficiency , specific activity , and the broadest pH-activity profile. The functional roles of Glu175 were also verified in the mutants of another two GH10 xylanases , XylE and XynE2 , which showed increased catalytic efficiencies and wider pH-activity profiles. XYL10C-ΔN , with excellent thermostability , high catalytic efficiency , and great lignocellulose-degrading capability , is a valuable candidate xylanase for the biofuel industry. The mechanism underlying improved activity of XYN10C-ΔN was thus investigated through structural analysis and functional verification , and Glu175 was identified to play the key role in the improved catalytic efficiency. This study revealed the importance of a key residue ( Glu175) in XYN10C-ΔN and provides a reference to modify GH10 xylanases for improved catalytic performance.