 High-frequency transcutaneous neuromuscular electrical nerve stimulation ( TENS) is currently used for the administration of electrical current in denervated muscle<symptom> to alleviate muscle atrophy and enhance motor function; however , the time window ( i.e. either immediate or delayed) for achieving benefit is still undetermined. In this study , we conducted an intervention of sciatic nerve crush injury using high-frequency TENS at different time points to assess the effect of motor and sensory functional recovery. Animals with left sciatic nerve crush injury received TENS treatment starting immediately after injury or 1 week later at a high frequency ( 100 Hz) or at a low frequency ( 2 Hz) as a control. In SFI gait analysis , either immediate or late admission of high-frequency electrical stimulation exerted significant improvement compared to either immediate or late administration of low-frequency electrical stimulation. In an assessment of allodynia , immediate high frequency electrical stimulation caused a significantly decreased pain threshold compared to late high-frequency or low-frequency stimulation at immediate or late time points. Immunohistochemistry staining and western blot analysis of S-100 and NF-200 demonstrated that both immediate and late high frequency electrical stimulation showed a similar effect; however the effect was superior to that achieved with low frequency stimulation. Immediate high frequency electrical stimulation resulted in significant expression of TNF-α and synaptophysin in the dorsal root ganglion , somatosensory cortex , and hippocampus compared to late electrical stimulation , and this trend paralleled the observed effect on somatosensory evoked potential. The CatWalk gait analysis also showed that immediate electrical stimulation led to a significantly high regularity index. In primary dorsal root ganglion cells culture , high-frequency electrical stimulation also exerted a significant increase in expression of TNF-α , synaptophysin , and NGF in accordance with the in vivo results. Immediate or late transcutaneous high-frequency electrical stimulation exhibited the potential to stimulate the motor<symptom> nerve regeneration. However , immediate electrical stimulation had a predilection to develop neuropathic pain. A delay in TENS initiation appears to be a reasonable approach for nerve repair and provides the appropriate time profile for its clinical application.