 Diabetes and its complications are more common in American Indians and Alaska Natives ( AI/AN) than other US racial/ethnic populations. Prior reports of diabetic retinopathy ( DR) prevalence in AI/AN are dated , and research on diabetic macular edema<symptom> ( DME) is limited. This study characterizes the recent prevalence of DR and DME in AI/AN using primary care-based teleophthalmology surveillance. This is a multi-site , clinic-based , cross-sectional study of DR and DME. The sample is composed of AI/ AN patients with diabetes ( n = 53,998) , served by the nationally distributed Indian Health Service-Joslin Vision Network Teleophthalmology Program ( IHS-JVN) in primary care clinics of US Indian Health Service ( IHS) , Tribal , and Urban Indian health care facilities ( I/T/U) from 1 November 2011 to 31 October 2016. Patients were recruited opportunistically for a retinal examination using the IHS-JVN during their regular diabetes care. The IHS-JVN used clinically validated , non-mydriatic , retinal imaging and retinopathy assessment protocols to identify the severity levels of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( NPDR) , proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR) , DME , and sight threatening retinopathy ( STR; a composite measure). Key social-demographic ( age , gender , IHS area) , diabetes-related health ( diabetes therapy , duration of diabetes , A1c) , and imaging technology variables were examined. The analysis calculated frequencies and percentages of severity levels of disease. Prevalence of any NPDR , PDR , DME , and STR among AI/AN patients undergoing DR teleophthalmology surveillance by IHS-JVN was 17.7 % , 2.3 % , 2.3 % , and 4.2 % , respectively. Prevalence was lowest in Alaska and highest among patients with A1c >/ = 8 % , duration of diabetes > 10 years , or using insulin. Prevalence of DR in this cohort was approximately half that in previous reports for AI/AN , and prevalence of DME was less than that reported in non-AI/AN populations. A similar reduction in diabetes related end-stage renal disease in the same population and time period has been reported by other researchers. Since these two diabetic complications share a common microvasculopathic mechanism , this coincident change in prevalence may also share a common basis , possibly related to improved diabetes management.