 Intracerebral hemorrhage<symptom> ( ICH) is one of the most common acute cerebrovascular diseases with high mortality. Numerous studies have shown that inflammatory response played an important role in ICH-induced brain injury. Theaflavin ( TF) extracted from black tea has various biological functions including anti-inflammatory activity. In this study , we investigated whether TF could inhibit ICH-induced inflammatory response in rats and explored its mechanism. ICH rat models were induced with type VII collagenase and pretreated with TF by gavage in different doses ( 25 mg/kg -100 mg/kg). Twenty-four hours after ICH attack , we evaluated the rats ' behavioral performance , the blood-brain barrier ( BBB) integrity , and the formation of cerebral edema<symptom>. The levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS) and inflammatory cytokines were examined by 2 ' ,7 '- dichlorofluorescin diacetate and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Nissl staining and transferase dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL) were aimed to detect the neuron loss and apoptosis , the mechanism of which was explored by Western blot. It was found that in the pretreated ICH rats TF significantly alleviated the behavioral defects , protected BBB integrity , and decreased the formation of cerebral edema<symptom> and the levels of ROS as well as inflammatory cytokines ( including interleukin-1 beta ( IL-1β) , IL-18 , tumor nectosis factor-alpha , interferon-γ , transforming growth factor beta , and ( C-X-C motif) ligand 1 ( CXCL1)). Nissl staining and TUNEL displayed TF could protect against the neuron loss and apoptosis via inhibiting the activation of nuclear transcription factor kappa-β-p65 ( NF-κβ-p65) , caspase-1 , and IL-1β. We also found that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , a nonspecific activator of NF-κβ-p65 , weakened the positive effect of TF on ICH-induced neural defects and neuron apoptosis by upregulating NF-κβ-related signaling pathway. TF could alleviate ICH-induced inflammatory responses and brain injury in rats via inhibiting NF-κβ-related pathway , which may provide a new way for the therapy of ICH.