 Our study explored client experience of Australian Consumer Directed Care. This evolving funding model enables consumer autonomy and choice , allowing older people to remain in their community as they age and need support through the creation of a personalised support service. Consumer Directed Care focuses on providing services that the consumer self-determines to meeting their needs including identifying their types of services , from whom , when and how these services are delivered. Semi-structured in-depth interviews were conducted in two Australian states between August 2015 and April 2016 with 14 participants , preferably in receipt of CDC services for at least the previous 12 months. Questions explored how the participant first learned about this service; the types of services they received; whether services met their needs; and any additional support services they personally purchased. Interviews were transcribed , coded and thematically analysed. Four main themes related to consumer experience emerged. Knowledge: Unsure what Consumer Directed Care Means. Acceptance: Happily taking any prescriptive service that is offered. Compliance: Unhappily acceding to the prescriptive service that is offered. External Influences: Previous aged care service experience , financial position , and cultural differences. Our results suggest that the anticipated outcomes of Consumer Directed Care providing a better service experience were limited by existing client knowledge of these services , how best to utilise their funding allocation , and their acceptance or compliance with what was offered , even if this was not personalised or sufficient. External influences , such as service experience , finances , cultural difference , impacted the way clients managed their allocation. Our study identified that ongoing engagement and discussion with the client is required to ensure that services are specific , directly relevant and effective to achieving a consumer directed care service.