 Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs) are promising tools for the treatment of human lung disease and other pathologies relevant to newborn medicine. Recent studies have established MSC exosomes ( EXO) , as one of the main therapeutic vectors of MSCs in mouse models of multifactorial chronic lung disease of preterm infants , bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( BPD). However , the mechanisms underlying MSC-EXO therapeutic action are not completely understood. Using a neonatal mouse model of human BPD , we evaluated the therapeutic efficiency of early gestational age ( GA) human umbilical cord ( hUC)- derived MSC EXO fraction and its exosomal factor , tumor necrosis<symptom> factor alpha-stimulated gene-6 ( TSG-6). Conditioned media ( CM) and EXO fractions were isolated from 25 and 30 weeks GA hUC-MSC cultures grown in serum-free media ( SFM) for 24 h. Newborn mice were exposed to hyperoxia ( > 95 % oxygen) and were given intraperitoneal injections of MSC-CM or MSC-CM EXO fractions at postnatal ( PN) day 2 and PN4. They were then returned to room air until PN14 ( in a mouse model of severe BPD). The treatment regime was followed with ( rh) TSG-6 , TSG-6-neutralizing antibody ( NAb) , TSG-6 ( si) RNA-transfected MSC-CM EXO and their appropriate controls. Echocardiography was done at PN14 followed by harvesting of lung , heart and brain for assessment of pathology parameters. Systemic administration of CM or EXO in the neonatal BPD mouse model resulted in robust improvement in lung , cardiac and brain pathology. Hyperoxia-exposed BPD mice exhibited pulmonary<symptom> inflammation<symptom> accompanied by alveolar-capillary leakage , increased chord length , and alveolar simplification , which was ameliorated by MSC CM/EXO treatment. Pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy was also corrected. Cell death in brain was decreased and the hypomyelination reversed. Importantly , we detected TSG-6 , an immunomodulatory glycoprotein , in EXO. Administration of TSG-6 attenuated BPD and its associated pathologies , in lung , heart and brain. Knockdown of TSG-6 by NAb or by siRNA in EXO abrogated the therapeutic effects of EXO , suggesting TSG-6 as an important therapeutic molecule. Preterm hUC-derived MSC-CM EXO alleviates hyperoxia-induced BPD and its associated pathologies , in part , via exosomal factor TSG-6. The work indicates early systemic intervention with TSG-6 as a robust option for cell-free therapy , particularly for treating BPD.