 Surgical-site infections ( SSIs) increase the length of hospital admission and costs. SSI prevention guidelines include preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis. This review assessed the reporting quality and cost-effectiveness of preoperative antibiotics used to prevent SSI. PubMed , Web of Science , Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature , Index of Economic Articles ( EconLit) , Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effect ( including the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database) and Cochrane Central databases were searched systematically from 1970 to 2017 for articles that included costs , preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis and SSI. Included were RCTs and quasi-experimental studies conducted in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries with participants aged at least 18 years and published in English. Two reviewers assessed eligibility , with inter-rater reliability determined by Cohen 's κ statistic. The Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation and Reporting Standards ( CHEERS) and modified Drummond checklists were used to assess reporting and economic quality. Study outcomes and characteristics were extracted , and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated , with costs adjusted to euros ( 2016) ( $ 1 = US $ 1 · 25; # 1 sterling = $ 1 · 28). Twelve studies published between 1988 and 2014 were included from 646 records identified; nine were RCTs , two were nested within RCTs and one was a retrospective chart review. Study quality was highest in the nested studies. Cephalosporins ( first , second and third generation) were the most frequent prophylactic interventions. Eleven studies demonstrated clinically effective interventions; ten were cost-effective ( the intervention was dominant); in one the intervention was dominated by the control; and in one the intervention was more effective and more expensive than the control. Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis does reduce SSI , costs to hospitals and health providers , but the reporting of economic methods in RCTs is not standardized. Routinely nesting economic methods in RCTs would improve economic evaluations and ensure appropriate selection of prophylactic antibiotics.