 Meditation as a cognitive enhancement technique is of growing interest in the field of health and research on brain function. The Stroop Word-Color Task ( SWCT) has been adapted for neuroimaging studies as an interesting paradigm for the understanding of cognitive control mechanisms. Performance in the SWCT requires both attention and impulse control , which is trained in meditation practices. We presented SWCT inside the MRI equipment to measure the performance of meditators compared with non-meditators before and after a meditation retreat. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a 7-day Zen intensive meditation training ( a retreat) on meditators and non-meditators in this task on performance level and neural mechanisms. Nineteen meditators and 14 non-meditators were scanned before and after a 7-day Zen meditation retreat. No significant differences were found between meditators and non-meditators in the number of the correct responses and response time ( RT) during SWCT before and after the retreat. Probably , due to meditators training in attention , their brain activity in the contrast incongruent > neutral during the SWCT in the anterior cingulate , ventromedial prefrontal cortex/anterior cingulate , caudate/putamen/pallidum/ temporal lobe ( center) , insula/putamen/temporal lobe ( right) and posterior cingulate before the retreat , were reduced compared with non-meditators. After the meditation retreat , non-meditators had reduced activation in these regions , becoming similar to meditators before the retreat. This result could be interpreted as an increase in the brain efficiency of non-meditators ( less brain activation in attention-related regions and same behavioral response) promoted by their intensive training in meditation in only 7 days. On the other hand , meditators showed an increase in brain activation in these regions after the same training. Intensive meditation training ( retreat) presented distinct effects on the attention-related regions in meditators and non-meditators probably due to differences in expertise , attention processing as well as neuroplasticity.