 Using data from 50 long-term permanent plots from across Venezuelan forests in northern South America , we explored large-scale patterns of stem turnover , aboveground biomass ( AGB) and woody productivity ( AGWP) , and the relationships between them and with potential climatic drivers. We used principal component analysis coupled with generalized least squares models to analyze the relationship between climate , forest<disease> structure and stem dynamics. Two major axes associated with orthogonal temperature and moisture gradients effectively described more than 90 % of the environmental variability in the dataset. Average turnover was 1.91 ± 0.10 % year-1 with mortality and recruitment being almost identical , and close to average rates for other mature tropical forests. Turnover rates were significantly different among regions ( p < 0.001) , with the lowland forests in Western alluvial plains being the most dynamic , and Guiana Shield forests showing the lowest turnover rates. We found a weak positive relationship between AGB and AGWP , with Guiana Shield forests having the highest values for both variables ( 204.8 ± 14.3 Mg C ha-1 and 3.27 ± 0.27 Mg C ha-1 year-1 respectively) , but AGB was much more strongly and negatively related to stem turnover. Our data suggest that moisture is a key driver of turnover , with longer dry seasons favoring greater rates of tree turnover and thus lower biomass , having important implications in the context of climate change , given the increases in drought frequency in many tropical forests. Regional variation in AGWP among Venezuelan forests strongly reflects the effects of climate , with greatest woody productivity where both precipitation and temperatures are high. Overall , forests in wet , low elevation sites and with slow turnover stored the greatest amounts of biomass. Although faster stand<symptom> dynamics are closely associated with lower carbon storage , stem-level turnover rates and woody productivity did not show any correlation , indicating that stem dynamics and carbon dynamics are largely decoupled from one another.