 Depression<symptom> is the second leading cause of disability worldwide. The effects of clinical depression<symptom> may be mediated by neuroinflammation such as activation of microglia and high levels of proinflammatory cytokines in certain brain areas. Traditional Chinese medicine techniques such as electro-acupuncture ( EA) are used extensively in Asia to treat mental health disorders. However , EA has not been rigorously studied in treatment of depression<symptom>. This study was designed to assess the effectiveness of EA on depressive-like behavior and explore the role of hippocampal neuroinflammation in the potential antidepressant effect of EA. In this study , we used six chronic unpredictable stressors daily in a random sequence for 10 weeks. EA were performed on `` Bai-Hui '' ( Du-20) ( +) and `` Yang-Ling-Quan '' ( GB-34 , the right side;-) acupoints by an EA apparatus ( HANS Electronic Apparatus , LH202H , 2/100 Hz , 0.3 mA) for 30 min once every other day for last 4 weeks. The behavior tests including open field test and forced swimming test , which are widely used to assess depressive and anxiety-like behavior were performed on the Monday and Tuesday of the eleventh week. The results showed that 10 week of chronic unpredictable stress ( CUS) caused behavioral deficits in rats and neuroinflammation in hippocampus , such as increased expression of NLRP3 inflammasome components , upregulated mRNA level of IL-1β and the protein level of IL-1β mature form ( p17) and activation of microglia. Moreover , 4 weeks of EA treatment significantly attenuated behavioral deficits caused by CUS. EA 's antidepressant effect was accompanied by markedly decreased expression of certain NLRP3 inflammasome components and matured IL-1β. Meanwhile , EA treatment can significantly reverse CUS-induced increases in P2X7 receptor , Iba-1 , IL-18 , TNFα and IL-6 expression and decreases in GFAP expression. In conclusion , EA exhibited the antidepressant effect and alleviated the hippocampal neuroinflammation. These findings may provide insight into the role of hippocampal neuroinflammation in the antidepressant effect of EA.