 Office workers spend most of their working day sitting , and prolonged sitting has been associated with increased risk of poor health. Standing in meetings has been proposed as a strategy by which to reduce workplace sitting but little is known about the standing experience. This study documented workers ' experiences of standing in normally seated meetings. Twenty-five participants ( 18 + years) , recruited from three UK universities , volunteered to stand in 3 separate , seated meetings that they were already scheduled to attend. They were instructed to stand when and for however long they deemed appropriate , and gave semi-structured interviews after each meeting. Verbatim transcripts were analysed using Framework Analysis. Four themes , central to the experience of standing in meetings , were extracted: physical challenges to standing; implications of standing for meeting engagement; standing as norm violation; and standing as appropriation of power. Participants typically experienced some physical discomfort from prolonged standing , apparently due to choosing to stand for as long as possible , and noted practical difficulties of fully engaging in meetings while standing. Many participants experienced marked psychological discomfort due to concern at being seen to be violating a strong perceived sitting norm. While standing when leading the meeting was felt to confer a sense of power and control , when not leading the meeting participants felt uncomfortable at being misperceived to be challenging the authority of other attendees. These findings reveal important barriers to standing in normally-seated meetings , and suggest strategies for acclimatising to standing during meetings. Physical discomfort might be offset by building standing time slowly and incorporating more sit-stand transitions. Psychological discomfort may be lessened by notifying other attendees about intentions to stand. Organisational buy-in to promotional strategies for standing may be required to dispel perceptions of sitting norms , and to progress a wider workplace health and wellbeing agenda.