 Broadly neutralizing HIV-1 antibodies ( bNAbs) isolated from infected subjects display protective potential in animal models. Their elicitation by immunization is thus highly desirable. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env) is the sole viral target of bnAbs , but is also targeted by binding , non-neutralizing antibodies. Env-based immunogens tested so far in various<disease> animal species and humans have elicited binding and autologous neutralizing antibodies but not bNAbs ( with a few notable exceptions). The underlying reasons for this are not well understood despite intensive efforts to characterize the binding specificities of the elicited antibodies; mostly by employing serologic methodologies and monoclonal antibody isolation and characterization. These approaches provide limited information on the ontogenies and clonal B cell lineages that expand following Env-immunization. Thus , our current understanding on how the expansion of particular B cell lineages by Env may be linked to the development of non-neutralizing antibodies is limited. Here , in addition to serological analysis , we employed high-throughput BCR sequence analysis from the periphery , lymph nodes and bone<disease> marrow , as well as B cell- and antibody-isolation and characterization methods , to compare in great detail the B cell and antibody responses elicited in non-human primates by two forms of the clade C HIV<pathogen> Env 426c: one representing the full length extracellular portion of Env while the other lacking the variable domains 1 , 2 and 3 and three conserved N-linked glycosylation sites. The two forms were equally immunogenic , but only the latter elicited neutralizing antibodies by stimulating a more restricted expansion of B cells to a narrower set of IGH/IGK/IGL-V genes that represented a small fraction ( 0.003-0.02 %) of total B cells. Our study provides new information on how Env antigenic differences drastically affect the expansion of particular B cell lineages and supports immunogen-design efforts aiming at stimulating the expansion of cells expressing particular B cell receptors.