 The root plays an important role during plant development and growth , i.e. , the plant body maintenance , nutrient storage , absorption of water , oxygen and nutrient from the soil , and storage of water and carbohydrates , etc.. The objective of this study was attempted to determine root-specific genes at the initial developmental stages of maize by using network-based transcriptome analysis. The raw data obtained using RNA-seq were filtered for quality control of the reads with the FASTQC tool , and the filtered reads were pre-proceed using the TRIMMOMATIC tool. The enriched BINs of the DEGs were detected using PageMan analysis with the ORA_FISHER statistical test , and genes were assigned to metabolic pathways by using the MapMan tool , which was also used for detecting transcription factors ( TFs). For reconstruction of the co-expression network , we used the algorithm for the reconstruction of accurate cellular networks ( ARACNE) in the R package , and then the reconstructed co-expression network was visualized using the Cytoscape tool. RNA-seq. was performed using maize shoots and roots at different developmental stages of root emergence ( 6-10 days after planting , VE) and 1 week after plant emergence ( V2). A total of 1286 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) were detected in both tissues. Many DEGs involved in metabolic pathways exhibited altered mRNA levels between VE and V2. In addition , we observed gene expression changes for 113 transcription factors and found five enriched cis-regulatory elements in the 1-kb upstream regions of both DEGs. The network-based transcriptome analysis showed two modules as co-expressed gene clusters differentially expressed between the shoots and roots during plant development. The DEGs of one module exhibited gene expressional coherence in the maize root tips , suggesting that their functional relationships are associated with the initial developmental stage of the maize root. Finally , we confirmed reliable mRNA levels of the hub genes in the potential sub-network related to initial root development at the different developmental stages of VE , V2 , and 2 weeks after plant emergence.