 Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC) remains the most aggressive malignancy with the lowest 5-year survival rate of all cancers in part owing to the lack of tumor-specific therapy and the rapid metastatic nature of this cancer. The gastrointestinal peptide gastrin is a trophic peptide that stimulates growth of PDAC in an autocrine fashion by interaction with the cholecystokinin receptor that is overexpressed in this malignancy. We developed a therapeutic novel polyplex nanoparticle ( NP) that selectively targets the cholecystokinin receptor on PDAC. The NP was characterized in vitro and stability testing was performed in human blood. The effects of the target-specific NP loaded with gastrin small interfering RNA ( siRNA) was compared with an untargeted NP and with an NP loaded with a scrambled siRNA in vitro and in 2 orthotopic models of PDAC. A polymerase chain reaction metastasis array examined differentially expressed genes from control tumors compared with tumors of mice treated with the targeted polyplex NP. The polyplex NP forms a micelle that safely delivers specific gastrin siRNA to the tumor without off-target toxicity. Consistent with these findings , cellular uptake was confirmed only with the targeted fluorescently labeled NP by confocal microscopy in vitro and by IVIS fluorescent based imaging in mice bearing orthotopic pancreatic cancers but not found with untargeted NPs. Tumor uptake and release of the gastrin siRNA NP was verified by decreased cellular gastrin gene expression by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and peptide expression by immunohistochemistry. Growth of PDAC was inhibited in a dose-related fashion in cell culture and in vivo. The targeted NP therapy completely blocked tumor metastasis and altered tumor-specific genes. Our polyplex nanoparticle platform establishes both a strong foundation for the development of receptor-targeted therapeutics and a unique approach for the delivery of siRNA in vivo , thus warranting further exploration of this approach in other types of cancers.