 ER-α36 , a novel ER-α66 variant , has been demonstrated to promote tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer cells. However , the role and mechanisms of ER-α36 in cisplatin resistance of breast cancer cells remain unclear. This study investigates the expression and role of ER-α36 in cisplatin resistance of breast cancer cells and elucidates its underlying mechanisms. The expression of ER-α36 and the proteins involved in nongenomic estrogen signaling was evaluated by western blot analysis. Cisplatin sensitivity was explored by CCK-8 assay , monolayer colony formation assay and apoptosis assays , respectively. ER-α36 siRNAs/shRNAs and overexpression vector were transfected into cells to down-regulate or up-regulate ER-α36 expression. Loss-and gain-of function assays were performed to investigate the role of ER-α36 in cisplatin sensitivity. The interaction between ER-α36 and EGFR/HER -2 were detected using CoIP. A mouse xenograft model of breast cancer was established to verify the role of ER-α36 in vivo. ER-α36 is expressed at higher levels in cisplatin-resistant breast cancer cells compared to cisplatin sensitive cells. Cisplatin induced up-regulation of ER-α36 in a dose-dependent manner in breast cancer cells. Overexpression of ER-α36 leaded to cell resistant to cisplatin and knockdown of ER-α36 in cisplatin-resistant breast cancer cells restored cisplatin sensitivity. The up-regulation of ER-α36 resulted in increased activation of nongenomic estrogen signaling , which was responsible for cisplatin resistance. Disruption of ER-α36-mediated nongenomic estrogen signaling with kinase inhibitors significantly inhibited cisplatin-induced expression of ER-α36 and increased cisplatin sensitivity. The in vivo experiment also confirmed that up-regulation of ER-α36 attenuated cisplatin sensitivity in a mouse xenograft model of breast cancer. The results for the first time demonstrated that ER-α36 mediates cisplatin resistance in breast cancer cells through nongenomic estrogen signaling , suggesting that ER-α36 may serve as a novel target for cisplatin resistance and a potential indicator of cisplatin sensitivity in breast cancer treatment.