 Parkinson 's disease ( PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that includes motor and nonmotor symptoms. Sleep disturbance is known to decrease the quality of life in patients with PD , and there are limitations to the pharmacotherapy currently in use. Therefore , complementary treatment therapies are required to address these limitations. The traditional herbal medicines Yokukansan ( YKS) and Yokukansankachimpihange ( YKSCH) have been used to treat insomnia and night crying in children , suggesting their effectiveness against sleep disturbance in patients with PD. We will evaluate whether YKSCH improves sleep disturbance in PD and will identify YKS-related changes in hemodynamic parameters , and neurotransmitter and hormone levels in patients with PD experiencing sleep disturbance. We will conduct a randomized , double-blinded , placebo-controlled parallel trial in 34 patients with PD and sleep disturbance , randomly allocating the patients to either placebo-control ( n = 17) or treatment groups ( n = 17). The total study period will be 16 weeks; administration of YKSCH or placebo , as intervention , will be performed for a 12-week period , and follow-up will be performed over a 4-week period. All subjects will undergo conventional treatment , and be required to maintain a regular medication schedule throughout the study period. The primary outcome measure will be the Scales for Outcomes in PD-Sleep Scale score , and the secondary outcome measures will be polysomnography results , findings from instruments related to sleep disorders , neurotransmitter and hormone levels , and hemodynamic changes in the brain cortex. This trial will evaluate the effectiveness and safety of YKSCH for sleep improvement in PD with sleep disturbance , and investigate the underlying mechanism of action. We expect improvement in the scores for subjective and objective sleep scales , hemodynamic changes in prefrontal cortical activity , and changes in neurotransmitter and hormone levels. The findings will provide insight into the mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of YKSCH in PD , and lay the foundation for further studies on whether YKSCH improves sleep disturbance in PD. Clinical Research Information Service ( KCT0002869).