 The PI3K/mTOR pathway is the second most frequently deregulated pathway in a majority of cancers such as breast cancer , lung cancer , and melanomas as well as leukemia<disease>. Mutations in the genes coding for receptor tyrosine kinases ( RTKs) and G-protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs) are quite common in all forms of acute leukemia<disease>. This can be a major cause of deregulation of the PI3K-mTOR pathway. To understand how cells display resistance to the dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor , we used a panel of 25 acute leukemia<disease> cell lines. We observed that while a number of cell lines displayed sensitivity to the dual PI3K/mTOR pathway inhibitor PKI-587 , many cells displayed substantial resistance. Cells sensitive to PKI-587 also showed aberrant activation of PI3K/mTOR pathway components such as AKT and S6K and also displayed sensitivity to a panel of various other PI3K/mTOR inhibitors. Using RNA sequencing data , we observed that expression of a G protein-coupled receptor , P2RY14 , was upregulated nine-fold in cells showing resistance to the PI3K/mTOR inhibitor. P2RY14 has not been much studied in hematologic malignancies. However , this receptor seems to have a role in the localization of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs) and in promoting regenerative capabilities following injury. We observed that acute lymphoblastic leukemia<disease> ( ALL) and FLT3-ITD-positive acute myeloid leukemia<disease> ( AML) patients with higher expression of P2RY14 mRNA displayed relatively poor survival compared to patients carrying lower expression of P2RY14 suggesting a role of P2RY14 in patient survival. To understand the role of this receptor in cell signaling , we used phospho-protein arrays and observed activation of distinct signaling cascades. Furthermore , array data were verified using murine pro-B cell line Ba/F3 stably transfected with P2RY14. We observed that activation of P2RY14 by its ligand , UDP-glucose , resulted in selective induction of ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Taken together , our data suggest that acute leukemia<disease> cells resistant to PI3K/mTOR inhibition display upregulation of a GPCR , P2RY14 , which has a role in patient survival and also couples to the activation of ERK signaling.