 Uncertainties associated with the delivery of treatment to moving organs might compromise the accuracy of treatment. This study explores the impact of intra-fractional anatomical changes in pancreatic patients treated with charged particles delivered using a scanning beam. The aim of this paper is to define the potential source of uncertainties , quantify their effect , and to define clinically feasible strategies to reduce them. The study included 14 patients treated at our facility with charged particles ( protons or 12C) using intensity modulated particle therapy ( IMPT). Treatment plans were optimized using the Treatment Planning System ( TPS) Syngo ® RT Planning. The pre-treatment dose distribution under motion ( 4D) was simulated using the TPS TRiP4D and the dose delivered for some of the treatment fractions was reconstructed. The volume receiving at least 95 % of the prescribed dose ( V95CTV) and the target dose homogeneity were evaluated. The results from the 4D dose calculations were compared with dose distributions in the static case and its variation correlated with the internal motion amplitude and plan modulation , through the Pearson correlation coefficient , as well the significant p-value. The concept of the modulation index ( MI) was introduced to assess the degree of modulation of IMPT plans , through the quantification of intensity gradients between neighboring pencil beams. The induced breathing motion together with dynamic beam delivery results in an interplay effect , which affects the homogeneity and target coverage of the dose distribution. This effect is stronger ( ∆ V Under internal motion the use of inhomogeneous plans results in a decrease in the dose homogeneity and target coverage of dose distributions in comparison to the static case. Plan robustness can be improved by using multiple beams and avoiding beam entrance directions susceptible to density changes. 4D dose calculations support the selection of the most suitable plan for the specific patient 's anatomy.