 Using next-generation sequencing ( NGS) in newborn screening ( NBS) could expand the number of genetic conditions detected pre-symptomatically , simultaneously challenging current precedents , raising ethical concerns , and extending the role of parental decision-making in NBS. The NC NEXUS ( Newborn Exome Sequencing for Universal Screening) study seeks to assess the technical possibilities and limitations of NGS-NBS , devise and evaluate a framework to convey various types of genetic information , and develop best practices for incorporating NGS-NBS into clinical care. The study is enrolling both a healthy cohort and a cohort diagnosed with known disorders identified through recent routine NBS. It uses a novel age-based metric to categorize a priori the large amount of data generated by NGS-NBS and interactive online decision aids to guide parental decision-making. Primary outcomes include: ( 1) assessment of NGS-NBS sensitivity , ( 2) decision regret , and ( 3) parental decision-making about NGS-NBS , and , for parents randomized to have the option of requesting them , additional findings ( diagnosed and healthy cohorts). Secondary outcomes assess parents ' reactions to the study and to decision-making. Participants are parents and children in a well-child cohort recruited from a prenatal clinic and a diagnosed cohort recruited from pediatric clinics that treat children with disorders diagnosed through traditional NBS ( goal of 200 children in each cohort). In phase 1 , all parent participants use an online decision aid to decide whether to accept NGS-NBS for their child and provide consent for NGS-NBS. In phase 2 , parents who consent to NGS-NBS are randomized to a decision arm or control arm ( 2:1 allocation) and learn their child 's NGS-NBS results , which include conditions from standard ( non-NGS) NBS plus other highly actionable childhood-onset conditions. Parents in the decision arm use a second decision aid to make decisions about additional results from their child 's sequencing. In phase 3 , decision arm participants learn additional results they have requested. Online questionnaires are administered at up to five time points. NC NEXUS will use a rigorous interdisciplinary approach designed to collect rich data to inform policy , practice , and future research. clinicaltrials.gov , NCT02826694. Registered on 11 July , 2016.