 Provision of podiatry services , like other therapies in the UK , is an area that lacks guidance by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Many individuals living with arthritis<disease><symptom> in the UK are not eligible to access NHS podiatry services. The primary aim of this investigation was to understand the views of podiatry clinicians on their experiences of referral , access , provision and treatment for foot problems for patients who have arthritis<disease><symptom>. Focus groups were undertaken to explore , in-depth , individual views of podiatrists working in the UK to gain feedback on experiences of barriers and facilitators to referral , access , provision and treatment for foot problems for individuals living with arthritis<disease><symptom>. A purposive sampling strategy was adopted and two , semi-structured , focus group interviews conducted , involving 12 podiatrists from both NHS and independent sectors. To account for geographical variations one focus group took place in each of 2 predetermined ` zones ' of the UK; Yorkshire and Hampshire. Thematic analysis was employed to identify key meanings and report patterns within the data. The key themes derived from the podiatry clinician focus groups suggest a variety of factors influencing demand for , and burden of , foot pain within the UK. Participants expressed frustration on having a service that accepts and treats patients according to their condition , rather than their complaint. Additionally , concern was conveyed over variations in the understanding of stakeholders ' views of what podiatry is and what podiatrists aim to achieve for patients. Podiatrists interviewed believed that many individuals living with arthritis<disease><symptom> in the UK are not eligible to access NHS podiatry services and that this may be , in part , due to confusion<symptom> over what is known about podiatry and access criteria. Essentially , podiatrists interviewed called for a timely renaissance of current systems , to newer models of care that meet the foot care needs of individual patients ' circumstances and incorporate national multi-disciplinary guidance. Through this project , we have formulated key recommendations that are directed towards improving what other stakeholders ( including GPs , commissioners and users of podiatry services) know about the effectiveness of podiatry and also to futureproof the profession of podiatry.