 Regular physical activity is associated with reduced risk of chronic illnesses. Despite various types of successful physical activity interventions , maintenance of activity over the long term is extremely challenging. The aims of this original paper are to 1) describe physical activity engagement post intervention , 2) identify motivational profiles using natural language processing ( NLP) and clustering techniques in a sample of women who completed the physical activity intervention , and 3) compare sociodemographic and clinical data among these identified cluster groups. In this cross-sectional analysis of 203 women completing a 12-month study exit ( telephone) interview in the mobile phone-based physical activity education study were examined. The mobile phone-based physical activity education study was a randomized , controlled trial to test the efficacy of the app and accelerometer intervention and its sustainability over a 9-month period. All subjects returned the accelerometer and stopped accessing the app at the last 9-month research office visit. Physical engagement and motivational profiles were assessed by both closed and open-ended questions , such as `` Since your 9-month study visit , has your physical activity been more , less , or about the same ( compared to the first 9 months of the study)? '' and , `` What motivates you the most to be physically active? '' NLP and cluster analysis were used to classify motivational profiles. Descriptive statistics were used to compare participants ' baseline characteristics among identified groups. Approximately half of the 2 intervention groups ( Regular and Plus) reported that they were still wearing an accelerometer and engaging in brisk walking as they were directed during the intervention phases. These numbers in the 2 intervention groups were much higher than the control group ( overall P = .01 and P = .003 , respectively). Three clusters were identified through NLP and named as the Weight<symptom> Loss<symptom> group ( n = 19) , the Illness Prevention group ( n = 138) , and the Health Promotion group ( n = 46). The Weight<symptom> Loss<symptom> group was significantly younger than the Illness Prevention and Health Promotion groups ( overall P < .001). The Illness Prevention group had a larger number of Caucasians as compared to the Weight<symptom> Loss<symptom> group ( P = .001) , which was composed mostly of those who identified as African American , Hispanic , or mixed race. Additionally , the Health Promotion group tended to have lower BMI scores compared to the Illness Prevention group ( overall P = .02). However , no difference was noted in the baseline moderate-to-vigorous intensity activity level among the 3 groups ( overall P > .05). The findings could be relevant to tailoring a physical activity maintenance intervention. Furthermore , the findings from NLP and cluster analysis are useful methods to analyze short free text to differentiate motivational profiles. As more sophisticated NL tools are developed in the future , the potential of NLP application in behavioral research will broaden. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01280812; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01280812 ( Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/70IkGagAJ).