 Since the discovery of adult mesenchymal stem cells extensive research has been conducted to determine their mechanisms of differentiation and effectiveness in cell therapy and regenerative medicine. To assess the efficacy of autologous dental pulp mesenchymal stem cells delivered in a collagen matrix for post-extraction socket healing , a single-centre , double-blind , randomised , split-mouth , controlled clinical trial was performed. Both impacted mandibular third molars were extracted from 32 patients. Dental pulp was collected and dissociated; the resulting cell suspension , obtained by centrifugation , was incorporated into a resorbable collagen matrix and implanted in 32 experimental post-extraction sockets. Collagen matrices alone were implanted in 32 contralateral , control post-extraction sockets. Two neuroradiologists independently assessed the extent of bone repair at 6 months after the extractions. Computed tomography ( CT , Philips Brilliance) and an advanced display platform ( IntelliSpace Portal) was used to record extraction socket density , expressed as Hounsfield units ( HU) and height ( mm) of the distal interdental bone septum of the second molar. Measurements at 6 months post-extraction were compared with measurements obtained immediately after extraction. Data were analysed with the statistical program STATA 14. Two patients dropped out of the study. The final sample consisted of 22 women and 8 men ( mean age , 23 years; range: 18-30 years). Clinical , radiological , and surgical characteristics of impacted third molars of the control and experimental groups were homogeneous. Measurements obtained by the two neuroradiologists showed agreement. No significant differences were found in the extent of bone repair during analyses of density ( p = 0.4203 neuroradiologist 1; p = 0.2525 neuroradiologist 2) or interdental septum height ( p = 0.2280 neuroradiologist 1; p = 0.4784 neuroradiologist 2). In our clinical trial , we were unable to demonstrate that autologous dental pulp mesenchymal stem cells reduce socket bone resorption after inferior third molar extraction.