 The neonatal intensive care unit ( NICU) contains a unique cohort of patients with underdeveloped immune systems and nascent microbiome communities. Patients often spend several months in the same room , and it has been previously shown that the gut microbiomes of these infants often resemble the microbes found in the NICU. Little is known , however , about the identity , persistence , and absolute abundance of NICU room-associated bacteria over long stretches of time. Here , we couple droplet digital PCR ( ddPCR) , 16S rRNA gene surveys , and recently published metagenomics data from infant gut samples to infer the extent to which the NICU microbiome is shaped by its room occupants. Over 2832 swabs , wipes , and air samples were collected from 16 private-style NICU rooms housing very low<symptom> birth<symptom> weight ( < 1500 g) , premature ( < 31 weeks ' gestation) infants. For each infant , room samples were collected daily , Monday through Friday , for 1 month. The first samples from the first infant and the last samples from the last infant were collected 383 days apart. Twenty-two NICU locations spanning room surfaces , hands , electronics , sink basins , and air were collected. Results point to an incredibly simple room community where 5-10 taxa , mostly skin-associated , account for over 50 % of the amplicon reads. Biomass estimates reveal four to five orders of magnitude difference between the least to the most dense microbial communities , air , and sink basins , respectively. Biomass trends from bioaerosol samples and petri dish dust collectors suggest occupancy to be a main driver of suspended biological particles within the NICU. Using a machine learning algorithm to classify the origin of room samples , we show that each room has a unique microbial fingerprint. Several important taxa driving this model were dominant gut colonizers of infants housed within each room. Despite regular cleaning of hospital surfaces , bacterial biomass was detectable at varying densities. A room-specific microbiome signature was detected , suggesting microbes seeding NICU surfaces are sourced from reservoirs within the room and that these reservoirs contain actively dividing cells. Collectively , the data suggests that hospitalized infants , in combination with their caregivers , shape the microbiome of NICU rooms.