 There is need to strengthen institutions and mechanisms that can more systematically promote interactions between researchers , policy-makers and other stakeholders who can influence the uptake of research findings. In this article , we report the outcome of a two-way secondment model between Ebonyi State University ( EBSU) and Ebonyi State Ministry of Health ( ESMoH) in Nigeria as an innovative collaborative strategy to promote capacity enhancement for evidence-to-policy-to-action. This study was an exploratory design with a quantitative cross-sectional survey technique. A secondment memorandum of understanding ( MOU) was signed between heads of EBSU and ESMoH. The secondment program lasted six months with ten researchers and ten policy-makers spending up to two days per week in each other 's organization. The secondee researchers got engaged in policy-making and implementation activities in ESMoH , while the policy-maker secondees got involved in research activities in EBSU. Secondees evidence-to-policy capacity enhancement meetings were held and questionnaires designed in 5-point Likert scale were used to assess their impact. The secondee policy-makers and researchers admitted having considerable knowledge of secondment with mean ratings ( MNRs) of 3.40 and 3.74 respectively on the 5 points scale. Secondment appeared to be more common in the policy-makers ' organization ( MNRs: 2.80-3.07) than in the researchers ' institution ( MNRs: 2.58-2.84). The secondee policy-makers participated in some academic and research activities including serving in research ethics committee in EBSU and provided policy-making perspective to the activities. The secondee researchers supported the policymaking process in ESMoH through policy advisory roles , and provided capacity enhancement for staff of the ministry on the use of research evidence in policy-making. There was a noteworthy increase on knowledge of policy analysis and contextualization among the secondees ranging from 20.7 % to 50.4 % and 31.3 % to 42.8 % respectively following a training session. A Society for Health Policy Research and Knowledge Translation was established by mutual agreement of secondees as a platform to permanently institutionalize the collaboration. The outcome of this study clearly suggests that secondment has great potential in promoting evidence informed policy-making and merits further consideration.