 We investigated the neural underpinnings of texture categorisation using exemplars that were previously learned either within modalities ( visual training and visual test) or across modalities ( tactile training and visual test). Previous models of learning suggest a decrease in activation in brain regions that are typically involved in cognitive control during task acquisition , but a concomitant increase in activation in brain regions associated with the representation of the acquired information. In our study , participants were required to learn to categorise fabrics of different textures as either natural or synthetic. Training occurred over several sessions , with each fabric presented either visually or through touch to a participant. Pre- and post-training tests , in which participants categorised visual images only of the fabrics , were conducted during a functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI) scan. Consistent with previous research on cognitive processes involved in task acquisition , we found that categorisation training was associated with a decrease in activation in brain regions associated with cognitive systems involved in learning , including the superior parietal cortex , dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC) , and the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ( DLFC). Moreover , these decreases were independent of training modality. In contrast , we found greater activation to visual textures in a region within the left medial occipital cortex ( MOC) following training. There was no overall evidence of an effect of training modality in the main analyses , with texture-specific regional changes associated with both within- ( visual) and cross- ( touch) modal training. However , further analyses suggested that , unlike categorisation performance following within-modal training , crossmodal training was associated with bilateral activation of the MOC. Our results support previous evidence for a multisensory representation of texture within early visual regions of the cortex and provide insight into how multisensory categories are formed in the brain.