 The burden of preterm birth , fetal growth impairment , and associated neonatal deaths disproportionately falls on low- and middle-income countries where modern obstetric tools are not available to date pregnancies and monitor fetal growth accurately. The INTERGROWTH-21 To scale up the INTERGROWTH-21 This study protocol describes a pre-post , quasi-experimental implementation study of the standards at Jacaranda Health , a maternity hospital in peri-urban Nairobi , Kenya. All women with viable fetuses receiving antenatal and delivery services , their resulting newborns , and the clinicians caring for them from March 2016 to March 2018 are included. The study comprises a 12-month preimplementation phase , a 12-month implementation phase , and a 5-month post-implementation phase to be completed in August 2018. Quantitative clinical and qualitative data collected during the preimplementation and implementation phases will be assessed. A clinician survey was administered eight months into the implementation phase , month 20 of the study. Implementation outcomes include quantitative and qualitative analyses of feasibility , acceptability , adoption , appropriateness , fidelity , and penetration of the standards. Clinical outcomes include appropriateness of referral and effect of the standards on clinical care and decision-making. Descriptive analyses will be conducted , and comparisons will be made between pre- and postimplementation outcomes. Qualitative data will be analyzed using thematic coding and compared across time. The study was approved by the Amref Ethics and Scientific Review Committee ( Kenya) and the Harvard University Institutional Review Board. Study results will be shared with stakeholders through conferences , seminars , publications , and knowledge management platforms. From October 2016 to February 2017 , over 90 % of all full-time Jacaranda clinicians ( 26/28) received at least one of the three aspects of the INTERGROWTH-21 The findings of this study will have major implications on the national and global scale up of the INTERGROWTH-21 RR1-10.2196/ 10293.