 Measuring adolescents ' preferences for health states can play an important role in evaluating the delivery of pediatric healthcare. However , formal evaluation of the common direct preference elicitation methods for health states has not been done with adolescents. Therefore , the purpose of this study is to test how these methods perform in terms of their feasibility , reliability , and validity for measuring health state preferences in adolescents. This study used a web-based survey of adolescents , 18 years of age or younger , living in the United States. The survey included four health states , each comprised of six attributes. Preferences for these health states were elicited using the visual analogue scale , time trade-off , and standard gamble. The feasibility , test-retest reliability , and construct validity of each of these preference elicitation methods were tested and compared. A total of 144 participants were included in this study. Using a web-based survey format to elicit preferences for health states from adolescents was feasible. A majority of participants completed all three elicitation methods , ranked those methods as being easy , with very few requiring assistance from someone else. However , all three elicitation methods demonstrated weak test-retest reliability , with Kendall 's tau-a values ranging from 0.204 to 0.402. Similarly , all three methods demonstrated poor construct validity , with 9-50 % of all rankings aligning with our expectations. There were no significant differences across age groups. Using a web-based survey format to elicit preferences for health states from adolescents is feasible. However , the reliability and construct validity of the methods used to elicit these preferences when using this survey format are poor. Further research into the effects of a web-based survey approach to eliciting preferences for health states from adolescents is needed before health services researchers or pediatric clinicians widely employ these methods.