 Investigating cases of severe maternal morbidity ( SMM) and severe maternal outcome ( SMO) and the quality of maternal health care using near-miss approach has become popular over recent years. The aim of this study was to determine facility based incidence and the determinants of severe maternal outcome ( SMO) using this approach. Prospective cross-sectional study among all mothers who presented to study facility while pregnant , during child birth and/or within 42 days after termination of pregnancy seeking care and found to have SMM and SMO during the study period was carried out. There were total of 2737 live births , 202 SMM and 162 SMO ( 138 maternal near-misses ( MNM) and 24 maternal deaths ( MD)) cases. The SMO ratio was 59.2 per 1000 live births and the MNM mortality ratio , mortality index ( MI) and maternal mortality ratio ( MMR) were: 5.8:1 , 14.8 % and 876.9 per 100,000 live births respectively. Close to three-fourth of all women with SMO had evidence of organ dysfunction on arrival or within 12 h of hospitalization. The commonest underlying causes for SMO were uterine rupture 27 % , followed by hypertensive disorders 24 % and obstetric hemorrhage<symptom> 24 %. The highest case fatality rate was found to be associated with eclampsia 28 %. Maternal age , residential area , educational status and occupation were associated with SMO ( P < 0.0001). On binary multivariable logistic regression the occurrence of any delay , intrapartal detection of complication , the mode of delivery and duration of hospitalization had statically significant association with SMO ( p < 0.05). Optimal number of antenatal care ( ANC) visits and delivery by emergency cesarean section ( C/S) were found to be protective of SMO. The occurance SMO in the facility thus in the population served was high. Most of these factors associated with SMO are modifiable; some amenable to social change and the others are within the control of the health system. Thus the finding of this research calls for planning for such changes which can enhance timely and proper detection and management of pregnancy related complications.