 Comparison of the shaping ability of advanced nickel-titanium ( Ni-Ti) instruments is of great interest to the field of endodontics. However , the models used to study canal preparation still lack uniformity , relevance to reality and complexity. The aim of this study was thus to compare the shaping abilities of the ProTaper Next ( PN) and WaveOne ( WO) Ni-Ti instruments in three-dimensional ( 3D)- printed teeth , which may overcome the present defects of most real teeth and model teeth including 3D S-shaped canals. Six teeth and their corresponding 3D-printed replicas were prepared using the same kind of Ni-Ti instrument. The pre- and post-preparation volumes , surface areas and transportation of the canals were measured to compare the teeth with their replicas. Twenty 3D-printed teeth with S-shaped canals were used to support the preparation study. The S-shaped canals were then scanned to measure their volumes and surface areas. Next , the two kinds of instruments were used to prepare the 3D-printed canals ( n = 10 per group). The volume and surface area of the canals , the transportation along the two curvatures and the percentage of unprepared surface area were measured. Micro-CT and VGstudio2 .2 ( VG2 .2) software were used to perform scans and collect data throughout the research. The paired-samples T test and Kruskal-Wallis H test were used for statistical analysis. There was no significant difference between the real canals and the printed ones post-preparation ( P > .05). The printed S-shaped root canals had a unified shape , with a small standard deviation and range. The WO group had higher mean values for the volume and superficial area measurements compared with the PN group ( P < .05). No differences in the untouched areas were found between the two systems ( P > .05). PN caused less transportation at the apical curve than WO did ( P < .05). In conclusion , 3D-printed teeth are suitable for the study of Ni-Ti rotary instruments. Furthermore , the PN rotary system caused less transportation at the apical curve than the WO system did in complicated root canal procedures.