 Medical students are faced with enormous academic demands that may influence their emotional wellbeing. The high rate of depression<symptom> among medical students and its negative impact is an impetus to find explanation for the factors associated with it. Study skills that students possess might be such a factor. The current tools for the assessment of the study skills may have certain limitations , particularly for different cultural settings. This study aimed to develop and validate a Study Skills Inventory ( SSI) , and to investigate the relationship between the students ' study skills and the extent ( severity) of depressive symptoms , measured using the validated tool. The first version of the SSI was developed through expert consensus. The inventory was then administered to a randomly selected group of medical students. Confirmatory factor analysis was conducted for the internal validity. External validation was conducted by comparing the results of the SSI with the `` Approaches and Study Skills Inventory for Students '' ( ASSIST). After validation , the correlation between the SSI total score with the Beck Depression<symptom> Inventory II ( BDI-II) total score was investigated using the Pearson correlation coefficient. The means of the total study skills scores for each severity category of depression<symptom> were compared using ANOVA. A total of 23 items , representing five sub-scales , were included in the inventory. Based on 372 student responses ( response rate of 93 %) , the five-factor solution explained a cumulative variance of 52 % and Cronach alpha was 0.84. The SSI total score had a significant negative association with the BDI-II depression<symptom> score ( Pearson correlation of -.348 ** and P < 0.0001). This study showed evidence for acceptable reliability and validity of the newly developed SSI. Poor<symptom> study skills were found to correlate with higher depressive symptoms. This association needs confirmation in future research and could open a new door for better understanding of student depression<symptom>.