 Doxorubicin ( DOXO) is a chemotherapeutic agent widely used in the treatment of various types of cancer. However , cardiotoxicity is a major side effect of DOXO therapy due to the ability of this compound to induce cardiac cellular senescence. It is well known that microRNA ( miR) -34 a serves a role in cardiac dysfunction and ageing , and that it is involved in several cellular processes associated with DOXO-induced cardiotoxicity. Furthermore , mesenchymal stem cell ( MSC)- based therapies have been reported to modulate cellular senescence. In the present study , the Transwell system was used to co-culture H9c2 cells and MSCs , and cell proliferation and viability were assessed. The expression of senescence-related genes , p53 and p16 , and telomere length were analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( PCR) , and the protein expression levels of situin 1 ( SIRT1) were detected by western blotting. Additionally , telomerase activity of H9c2 was examined using the Telo TAGGG Telomerase PCR ELISA PLUS kit. The present study revealed that , in the presence of DOXO , H9c2 cells were in senescence , as characterized by a low proliferation rate , poor viability and a marked increase in the expression of p53 and p16. By contrast , when co-cultured with MSCs in the presence of DOXO , the proliferation and viability of H9c2 cells increased. Additionally , the expression of p53 and p16 decreased , and increased length of telomere and telomerase activity was also observed. Additionally , the mechanism underlying the anti-senescence function of MSCs was revealed to involve the miR-34a-SIRT1 axis , confirmed by overexpressing miR-34a using a miR-34a mimic or silencing SIRT1 using small interfering RNA , which abolished the anti-senescence effect of MSCs on DOXO-treated H9c2 cells. Taken together , the results of the present study suggest that MSCs may rejuvenate H9c2 cells from a state of DOXO-induced senescence by increasing SIRT1 expression , there by inhibiting miR-34a. Therefore , treatment with MSCs may have important therapeutic implications in the restoration of cardiotoxicity in patients with cancer undergoing treatment with DOXO.