 Introduction The Barrow Biomimetic Spine project is an ongoing effort to develop a three-dimensional ( 3D)- printed synthetic spine model with high anatomical and biomechanical fidelity to human tissue. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biomechanical performance of an L4-L5 3D-printed synthetic spine model in a lordotic correction test after Schwab grade 2 osteotomies as compared to human cadaveric spines that have undergone the same osteotomies and lordotic correction. Methods Ten different L4-L5 synthetic spine models were 3D printed. Each print varied in either the material used for the soft<disease> tissue components , the infill density of the bony and soft<disease> tissue structures , the pre-correction disc height , or the model orientation on the print bed. Each print was instrumented with pedicle screws and underwent a Schwab grade 2 osteotomy. Changes in disc height measurements and end-plate angle were compared against cadaveric data acquired using the same study method. Results A simple linear correlation analysis demonstrated that for horizontally printed models using PolyFlex ( Polymaker , New<pathogen> York , NY , USA) ( models 1-3 , 8 , 10) , the pre-correction posterior disc height and lordotic correction were moderately correlated ( r = 0.56) , but this correlation did not achieve statistical significance ( P = 0.12). Regression analysis demonstrated a very strong correlation between lordotic correction and change in posterior disc height ( r = 0.92 , P < 0.001). Models printed either vertically ( models 4-6) or with low bone density and high soft<disease> tissue density ( model 10) appeared to perform the most similarly to the cadaveric tissue. Discussion The 3D-printed synthetic spine models demonstrated predictable and reliable performance in a lordotic correction test based on their respective material qualities and print densities. The print variables tested further demonstrated that this model is capable of achieving high biomechanical fidelity to cadaveric tissue when subjected to the same lordotic correction test after Schwab grade 2 osteotomies.