 Pediatric brain damage is associated with various cognitive deficits. Cognitive rehabilitation may prevent and reduce cognitive impairment. In recent years , home-based computerized cognitive training ( CCT) has been introduced in clinical practice to increase treatment opportunities for patients ( telerehabilitation). However , limited research has been conducted thus far on investigating the effects of remote CCT for the juvenile population in contexts other than English-speaking countries. The aim of the present study was to investigate the feasibility of a home-based CCT in a group of Italian adolescents with brain damage. A commercially available CCT ( Lumosity) developed in the English language was used due to the lack of telerehabilitation programs in the Italian language that allow stimulation of multiple cognitive domains and , at the same time , remote automatic collection of data. Thus , this investigation provides information on the possibility of introducing CCT programs available in foreign languages in countries with limited investment in the telerehabilitation field. 32 adolescents aged 11-16 with a diagnosis of congenital or acquired ( either traumatic or non-traumatic) brain damage participated in the study. They received 40 training sessions ( 5 days/week for 8 weeks). Before starting the training program , they received face-to-face demonstration of training exercises and written instructions in their mother tongue. The feasibility of both training and study design and procedures was assessed through 9 criteria taken from extant literature. All 9 feasibility criteria were met. 31 out of the 32 participants demonstrated adherence to the training program. 94.2 % of training sessions were completed in the recommended timeframe. No significant technical issue was found. Telerehabilitation seems to be a feasible practice for adolescents with brain damage. A training program developed in a foreign language can be used to counter the unavailability of programs in patients ' mother tongue. The trial is registered with the ISRCTN registry with study ID ISRCTN59250807.