 The objective of this study was to derive evidence-based physical activity guidelines for the general Dutch population. Two systematic reviews were conducted of English language meta-analyses in PubMed summarizing separately randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies on the relation between physical activity and sedentary behaviour on the one hand and the risk of all-cause mortality and incidence of 15 major chronic<disease> diseases<disease> and conditions on the other hand. Other outcome measures were risk factors for cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes , physical functioning , and fitness. On the basis of these reviews , an expert committee derived physical activity guidelines. In deriving the guidelines , the committee first selected only experimental and observational prospective findings with a strong level of evidence and then integrated both lines of evidence. The evidence found for beneficial effects on a large number of the outcome measures was sufficiently strong to draw up guidelines to increase physical activity and reduce sedentary behaviour , respectively. At the same time , the current evidence did not provide a sufficient basis for quantifying how much physical activity is minimally needed to achieve beneficial health effects , or at what amount sedentary behaviour becomes detrimental. A general tenet was that at every level of current activity , further increases in physical activity provide additional health benefits , with relatively larger effects among those who are currently not active or active only at light intensity. Three specific guidelines on ( 1) moderate- and vigorous-intensity physical activity , ( 2) bone- and muscle-strengthening activities , and ( 3) sedentary behaviour were formulated separately for adults and children. There is an unabated need for evidence-based physical activity guidelines that can guide public health policies. Research in which physical activity is measured both objectively ( quantity) and subjectively ( type and quality) is needed to provide better estimates of the type and actual amount of physical activity required for health.