 Nitrogen availability limits growth in most boreal forests. However , parts of the boreal zone receive significant levels of nitrogen deposition. At the same time , forests are fertilized to increase volume growth and carbon sequestration. No matter the source , increasing nitrogen in the boreal forest<disease> ecosystem will influence the resource situation for its primary producers , the plants , with possible implications for their defensive chemistry. In general , fertilization reduces phenolic compound concentrations in trees , but existing evidence mainly comes from studies on young plants. Given the role of the phenolic compounds in protection against herbivores and other forest<disease> pests , it is important to know if phenolics are reduced with fertilization also in mature trees. The evergreen Norway spruce is long-lived , and it is reasonable that defensive strategies could change from the juvenile to the reproductive and mature phases. In addition , as the needles are kept for several years , defense could also change with needle age. We sampled current and previous year needles from an N fertilization experiment in a Norway spruce forest<disease> landscape in south-central Norway to which N had been added annually for 13 years. We analyzed total nitrogen ( N) and carbon ( C) , as well as low-molecular phenolics and condensed tannins. Needles from fertilized trees had higher N than those from controls plots , and fertilization decreased concentrations of many flavonoids , as well as condensed tannins in current year needles. In previous year needles , some stilbenes and condensed tannins were higher in fertilized trees. In control trees , the total phenolic concentration was almost five times as high in previous year needles compared with those from the current year , and there were great compositional differences. Previous year needles contained highest concentrations of acetophenone and stilbenes , while in the current year needles the flavonoids , and especially coumaroyl-astragalins dominated. Condensed tannins did not differ between current and previous year needles from control trees. In conclusion , the phenolic defense of current year needles of mature