 Reduction in neonatal deaths has been a major challenge globally. To prevent neonatal deaths , improvements in newborn care have been promoted worldwide. The World Health Organization Western Pacific Regional Office has been promoting the Early Essential Newborn Care ( EENC) , a package of specific simple and cost-effective interventions , in their region. However , mere introduction of EENC can not reduce neonatal deaths unless quality of care is ensured. In Lao PDR , the government introduced self-managed continuous monitoring as a sustainable way to improve the quality of care described in the EENC. A clustered randomized controlled trial was designed to compare the effectiveness of self-managed continuous monitoring with external supervisory visits to monitor health workers ' satisfactory EENC performance and their knowledge and skills related to the EENC in Lao PDR. Determinants of EENC performance will be measured with a structured questionnaire developed based on the Theory of Planned Behaviour , which predicts future behaviour. During self-managed continuous monitoring activities , health workers in each district hospital will conduct periodical peer reviews and feedback sessions. Fifteen district hospitals will be randomly allocated into the self-managed continuous monitoring ( intervention) and the supervision ( control) groups. Fifteen health workers routinely involved in maternity and newborn care including physicians , midwives and other health staff will be recruited from each hospital ( effect size 0.6 , intra-cluster correlation coefficient 0.06 , 5 % alpha error and 80 % power). We will compare the change in the mean score of the determinants before and one year after randomisation between the two groups. We will also compare the retention of knowledge and skills related to the EENC between the two groups. The expected enrolment period is July 20th , 2017 to July 20th , 2018. This is the first cluster randomized trial to evaluate a self-managed continuous monitoring system for quality maintenance of newborn care in a resource-limited country. This research is conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and international organizations; therefore , if effective , this intervention would be applied in larger areas of the country and the region. This trial was registered at UMIN-CTR on 15th of June , 2017. Registration number is UMIN000027794.