 Anterior cruciate ligament rupture ( ACLR) is a debilitating and potentially life-changing condition in humans , as there is a high prevalence of early-onset osteoarthritis after injury. Identification of high-risk individuals before they become patients is important , as post-treatment lifetime burden of ACLR in the USA ranges from $ 7.6 to $ 17.7 billion annually. ACLR is a complex<disease> disease<disease> with multiple risk factors including genetic predisposition. Naturally occurring ACLR in the dog is an excellent model for human ACLR , as risk factors and disease characteristics in humans and dogs are similar. In a univariate genome-wide association study ( GWAS) of 237 Labrador Retrievers , we identified 99 ACLR candidate loci. It is likely that additional variants remain to be identified. Joint analysis of multiple correlated phenotypes is an underutilized technique that increases statistical power , even when only one phenotype is associated with the trait. Proximal tibial morphology has been shown to affect ACLR risk in both humans and dogs. In the present study , tibial plateau angle ( TPA) and relative tibial tuberosity width ( rTTW) were measured on bilateral radiographs from purebred Labrador Retrievers that were recruited to our initial GWAS. We performed a multivariate genome wide association analysis of ACLR status , TPA , and rTTW. Our analysis identified 3 loci with moderate evidence of association that were not previously associated with ACLR. A locus on Chr1 associated with both ACLR and rTTW is located within ROR2 , a gene important for cartilage and bone development. A locus on Chr4 associated with both ACLR and TPA resides within DOCK2 , a gene that has been shown to promote immune cell migration and invasion in synovitis<symptom> , an important predictor of ACLR. A third locus on Chr23 associated with only ACLR is located near a long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA). LncRNA 's are important for regulation of gene transcription and translation. These results did not overlap with our previous GWAS , which is reflective of the different methods used , and supports the need for further work. The results of the present study are highly relevant to ACLR pathogenesis , and identify potential drug targets for medical treatment.