 Knowledge of dynamic interactions between natural organic matter ( NOM) and microbial communities is critical not only to delineate the routes of NOM degradation/transformation and carbon ( C) fluxes , but also to understand microbial community evolution and succession in ecosystems. Yet , these processes in subsurface environments are usually studied independently , and a comprehensive view has been elusive thus far. In this study , we fed sediment-derived dissolved organic matter ( DOM) to groundwater microbes and continually analyzed microbial transformation of DOM over a 50-day incubation. To document fine-scale changes in DOM chemistry , we applied high-resolution Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry ( FT-ICR MS) and soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy ( sXAS). We also monitored the trajectory of microbial biomass , community structure and activity over this time period. Together , these analyses provided an unprecedented comprehensive view of interactions between sediment-derived DOM and indigenous subsurface groundwater microbes. Microbial decomposition of labile C in DOM was immediately evident from biomass increase and total organic carbon ( TOC) decrease. The change of microbial composition was closely related to DOM turnover: microbial community in early stages of incubation was influenced by relatively labile tannin- and protein-like compounds; while in later stages the community composition evolved to be most correlated with less labile lipid- and lignin-like compounds. These changes in microbial community structure and function , coupled with the contribution of microbial products to DOM pool affected the further transformation of DOM , culminating in stark changes to DOM composition over time. Our study demonstrates a distinct response of microbial communities to biotransformation of DOM , which improves our understanding of coupled interactions between sediment-derived DOM , microbial processes , and community structure in subsurface groundwater.