 Ketogenic diets ( KDs) or short-term fasting are popular trends amongst supportive approaches for cancer patients. Beta-hydroxybutyrate ( 3-OHB) is the main physiological ketone body , whose concentration can reach plasma levels of 2-6 mM during KDs or fasting. The impact of 3-OHB on the biology of tumor cells described so far is contradictory. Therefore , we investigated the effect of a physiological concentration of 3 mM 3-OHB on metabolism , proliferation , and viability of breast cancer ( BC) cells in vitro. Seven different human BC cell lines ( BT20 , BT474 , HBL100 , MCF-7 , MDA-MB 231 , MDA-MB 468 , and T47D) were cultured in medium with 5 mM glucose in the presence of 3 mM 3-OHB at mild hypoxia ( 5 % oxygen) or normoxia ( 21 % oxygen). Metabolic profiling was performed by quantification of the turnover of glucose , lactate , and 3-OHB and by Seahorse metabolic flux analysis. Expression of key enzymes of ketolysis as well as the main monocarboxylic acid transporter MCT2 and the glucose-transporter GLUT1 was analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. The effect of 3-OHB on short- and long-term cell proliferation as well as chemo- and radiosensitivity were also analyzed. 3-OHB significantly changed the oxygen consumption rate ( OCR) and extracellular acidification rate ( ECAR) in BT20 cells resulting in a more oxidative energetic phenotype. MCF-7 and MDA-MB 468 cells had increased ECAR only in response to 3-OHB , while the other three cell types remained uninfluenced. All cells expressed MCT2 and GLUT1 , thus being able to uptake the metabolites. The consumption of 3-OHB was not strongly linked to mRNA overexpression of key enzymes of ketolysis and did not correlate with lactate production and glucose consumption. Neither 3-OHB nor acetoacetate did interfere with proliferation. Further , 3-OHB incubation did not modify the response of the tested BC cell lines to chemotherapy or radiation. We found that a physiological level of 3-OHB can change the energetic profile of some BC cell lines. However , 3-OHB failed to influence different biologic processes in these cells , e.g. , cell proliferation and the response to common breast cancer chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Thus , we have no evidence that 3-OHB generally influences the biology of breast cancer cells in vitro.