 Annexin A7 is a member of the Annexin A family , which participates in various biological processes. Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that Annexin A7 serves an important role in tumorigenesis and is dysregulated in multiple types of cancer. However , the role of Annexin A7 in the tumorigenesis of gastric cancer remains to be determined. The present study revealed that Annexin A7 expression is downregulated in late-stage gastric cancer and is negatively correlated with the differentiation grade and apoptosis. There was a significant difference in Annexin A7 mRNA and protein expression in gastric cancer samples with distinct differentiation grades , with the lowest expression being observed in the highly differentiated cases. A terminal deoxynucleotidyl-transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling assay demonstrated that the apoptosis indices of highly , moderately and poorly differentiated gastric cancers were 18.12 ± 2.40 , 9.73 ± 1.73 and 4.13 ± 0.83 % , respectively , with statistical significance ( P < 0.05). Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that the apoptosis rates of gastric cancer MKN74 , SGC7901 and BGC823 cells were 10.07 ± 1.21 , 7.11 ± 1.04 and 4.25 ± 1.02 % , respectively , with statistical significance ( P < 0.05). Spearman 's rank correlation analysis revealed that the Annexin A7 mRNA and protein levels were negatively correlated with the differentiation grade of the gastric cancer tissues , while the apoptosis index was positively correlated with the differentiation grade of the gastric cancer tissues. Furthermore , the apoptosis index was negatively correlated with Annexin A7 mRNA and protein expression. Similar associations were observed among Annexin A7 expression , differentiation grades and apoptosis in gastric cancer cell lines. The results of the present study demonstrated that Annexin A7 expression is downregulated , while apoptosis is upregulated , with the progression of gastric adenocarcinoma. These observations suggested that Annexin A7 may inhibit apoptosis during tumorigenesis and that it is a potential biomarker for the diagnosis , prognosis and treatment of gastric adenocarcinoma.