 Cardiovascular magnetic resonance ( CMR) fluoroscopy allows for simultaneous measurement of cardiac function , flow and chamber pressure during diagnostic heart catheterization. To date , commercial metallic guidewires were considered contraindicated during CMR fluoroscopy due to concerns over radiofrequency ( RF)- induced heating. The inability to use metallic guidewires hampers catheter navigation in patients with challenging anatomy. Here we use low specific absorption rate ( SAR) imaging from gradient echo spiral acquisitions and a commercial nitinol guidewire for CMR fluoroscopy right heart catheterization in patients. The low-SAR imaging protocol used a reduced flip angle gradient echo acquisition ( 10 ° vs 45 °) and a longer repetition time ( TR) spiral readout ( 10 ms vs 2.98 ms). Temperature was measured in vitro in the ASTM 2182 gel phantom and post-mortem animal experiments to ensure freedom from heating with the selected guidewire ( 150 cm × 0.035 ″ angled-tip nitinol Terumo Glidewire). Seven patients underwent CMR fluoroscopy catheterization. Time to enter each chamber ( superior vena cava , main pulmonary artery , and each branch pulmonary artery) was recorded and device visibility and confidence in catheter and guidewire position were scored on a Likert-type scale. Negligible heating ( < 0.07 °C) was observed under all in vitro conditions using this guidewire and imaging approach. In patients , chamber entry was successful in 100 % of attempts with a guidewire compared to 94 % without a guidewire , with failures to reach the branch pulmonary arteries. Time-to-enter each chamber was similar ( p = NS) for the two approaches. The guidewire imparted useful catheter shaft conspicuity and enabled interactive modification of catheter shaft stiffness , however , the guidewire tip visibility was poor. Under specific conditions , trained operators can apply low-SAR imaging and using a specific fully-insulated metallic nitinol guidewire ( 150 cm × 0.035 '' Terumo Glidewire) to augment clinical CMR fluoroscopy right heart catheterization. Clinicaltrials.gov NCT03152773 , registered May 15 , 2017.