 The aim of this study was to evaluate the utility of computed tomography ( CT) vascular reconstruction in the localization diagnosis of perigastric mass. Fifty-eight patients with pathologically detected perigastric mass underwent abdominal dynamic contrast-enhanced CT.. CT vascular reconstructions were produced from arterial phase data using volume rendering ( VR) , multiplanar reconstruction ( MPR) , and maximal intensity projection ( MIP). Image analysis was focused on the relationship between the mass , perigastric arteries , and the gastric wall. Localization diagnosis values were compared between CT vascular reconstruction and dynamic-enhanced CT images. Among the 58 cases of perigastric mass , 41 cases originated from the stomach , 7 cases from the left liver lobe , 6 from the pancreas , 2 from lessor omental bursa , 1 from transverse mesocolon , and 1 from left adrenal gland. The accuracy of CT vascular reconstruction images in the localization diagnosis of perigastric mass was higher than that of dynamic-enhanced CT images ( 98.3 % and 86.2 % , respectively , P = .04). On the reference level , 35 ( 35/41) patients with stomach-originated masses showed the mass adjacent perigastric arteries pushed away from the stomach ( arterial displacement sign) , and 15 ( 15/17) patients with nonstomach-originated masses showed perigastric arteries between the mass and the stomach ( arterial entrapment sign). The sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value of the localization diagnosis of perigastric mass with arterial displacement sign were 85.4 % , 100 % , 100 % , and 73.9 % , respectively , and with arterial entrapment sign , 88.2 % , 100 % , 100 % , and 95.3 % , respectively. CT vascular reconstruction can clearly depict the relationship between perigastric mass and adjacent perigastric arteries , which may help us more accurately differentiate between stomach-originated and nonstomach-originated masses compared with original dynamic-enhanced CT images.