 Soil tillage can affect the stability and formation of soil aggregates by disrupting soil structure. Frequent tillage deteriorates soil structure and weakens soil aggregates , causing them to be susceptible to decay. Different types of tillage systems affect soil physical properties and organic matter content , in turn influencing the formation of aggregates. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of long-term tillage on soil aggregates and aggregate-associated carbon in a black soil of Northeast China and to identify the optimal conservation tillage in this system. This research was conducted on a long-term tillage experimental field established in 1983 at the Jilin Academy of Agricultural Sciences , Gongzhuling , China. Plots were treated with four tillage systems including no tillage ( NT) , spacing tillage ( ST) , moldboard plowing ( MP) , and conventional tillage ( CT). We took samples every 10 cm from 0-60cm depth and demonstrated that water-stable soil aggregates > 0.25 mm in diameter accounted for over 66.0 % of total aggregates for all tillage treatments , and the percentage for the ST treatment was 34.5 % higher than in the other treatments. The NT treatment had the highest effect at 0-10cm depth , while the effect for the ST treatment was highest at 0-30cm. SOC storage decreased with soil depth , with a significant accumulation at 0-20cm depth. Across treatments , aggregate-associated C at a depth of 0-10cm was higher in the NT and ST treatments than in the MP and CT treatments. The advantage of the NT treatment weakened with soil depth , while the amount of aggregate-associated C remained higher for the ST treatment. There were more macro-aggregates in the ST and NT treatments than in the MP and CT treatments , while the MP and CT treatments had more micro-aggregates. The sum of macro-aggregate contributing rates for soil organic C ( SOC) was significantly superior to that of the micro-aggregates. Water-stable aggregates increased by 34.5 % in the ST treatment , effectively improving the soil structure. Furthermore , 0.25-1.00 and 1-2mm aggregates had the highest SOC storage and responded rapidly to the various tillage treatments. Hence , they can serve as indicators for the long-term influence of different tillage treatments on the distribution of aggregates and SOC.