 The long-range sequencing information captured by linked reads , such as those available from 10 × Genomics ( 10xG) , helps resolve genome sequence repeats , and yields accurate and contiguous draft genome assemblies. We introduce ARKS , an alignment-free linked read genome scaffolding methodology that uses linked reads to organize genome assemblies further into contiguous drafts. Our approach departs from other read alignment-dependent linked read scaffolders , including our own ( ARCS) , and uses a kmer-based mapping approach. The kmer mapping strategy has several advantages over read alignment methods , including better usability and faster processing , as it precludes the need for input sequence formatting and draft sequence assembly indexing. The reliance on kmers instead of read alignments for pairing sequences relaxes the workflow requirements , and drastically reduces the run time. Here , we show how linked reads , when used in conjunction with Hi-C data for scaffolding , improve a draft human genome assembly of PacBio long-read data five-fold ( baseline vs. ARKS NG50 = 4.6 vs. 23.1 Mbp , respectively). We also demonstrate how the method provides further improvements of a megabase-scale Supernova human genome assembly ( NG50 = 14.74 Mbp vs. 25.94 Mbp before and after ARKS) , which itself exclusively uses linked read data for assembly , with an execution speed six to nine times faster than competitive linked read scaffolders ( ~ 10.5 h compared to 75.7 h , on average). Following ARKS scaffolding of a human genome 10xG Supernova assembly ( of cell line NA12878) , fewer than 9 scaffolds cover each chromosome , except the largest ( chromosome 1 , n = 13). ARKS uses a kmer mapping strategy instead of linked read alignments to record and associate the barcode information needed to order and orient draft assembly sequences. The simplified workflow , when compared to that of our initial implementation , ARCS , markedly improves run time performances on experimental human genome datasets. Furthermore , the novel distance estimator in ARKS utilizes barcoding information from linked reads to estimate gap sizes. It accomplishes this by modeling the relationship between known distances of a region within contigs and calculating associated Jaccard indices. ARKS has the potential to provide correct , chromosome-scale genome assemblies , promptly. We expect ARKS to have broad utility in helping refine draft genomes.