 The rat genome was sequenced in 2004 with the aim to improve human health altered by disease and environmental influences through gene discovery and animal model validation. Here , we report development and testing of a probe set for whole exome sequencing ( WES) to detect sequence variants in exons and UTRs of the rat genome. Using an in-silico approach , we designed probes targeting the rat exome and compared captured mutations in cancer-related genes from four chemically induced rat tumor cell lines ( C6 , FAT7 , DSL-6A/ C1 , NBTII) to validated cancer genes in the human database , Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer ( COSMIC) as well as normal rat DNA. Paired , fresh frozen ( FF) and formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded ( FFPE) liver tissue from naive rats were sequenced to confirm known dbSNP variants and identify any additional variants. Informatics analysis of available gene annotation from rat RGSC6 .0/ rn6 RefSeq and Ensembl transcripts provided 223,636 unique exons representing a total of 26,365 unique genes and untranslated regions. Using this annotation and the Rn6 reference genome , an in-silico probe design generated 826,878 probe sequences of which 94.2 % were uniquely aligned to the rat genome without mismatches. Further informatics analysis revealed 25,249 genes ( 95.8 %) covered by at least one probe and 23,603 genes ( 93.5 %) had every exon covered by one or more probes. We report high performance metrics from exome sequencing of our probe set and Sanger validation of annotated , highly relevant , cancer gene mutations as cataloged in the human COSMIC database , in addition to several exonic variants in cancer-related genes. An in-silico probe set was designed to enrich the rat exome from isolated DNA. The platform was tested on rat tumor cell lines and normal FF and FFPE liver tissue. The method effectively captured target exome regions in the test DNA samples with exceptional sensitivity and specificity to obtain reliable sequencing data representing variants that are likely chemically induced somatic mutations. Genomic discovery conducted by means of high throughput WES queries should benefit investigators in discovering rat genomic variants in disease etiology and in furthering human translational research.