 The effects of socio-demographic and economic factors on institutional long-term care ( LTC) among people with dementia remain unclear. Inconsistent findings may relate to time-varying effects of these factors as dementia progresses. To clarify the question , we estimated institutional LTC trajectories by age , marital status and household income in the eight years preceding dementia-related and non-dementia-related deaths. We assessed a population-representative sample of Finnish men and women for institutional LTC over an eight-year period before death. Deaths related to dementia and all other causes at the age of 70 + in 2001-2007 were identified from the Death Register. Dates in institutional LTC were obtained from national care registers. We calculated the average and time-varying marginal effects of age , marital status and household income on the estimated probability of institutional LTC use , employing repeated-measures logistic regression models with generalised estimating equations ( GEE). The effects of age , marital status and household income on institutional LTC varied across the time before death , and the patterns differed between dementia-related and non-dementia-related deaths. Among people who died of dementia , being of older age , non-married and having a lower income predicted a higher probability of institutional LTC only until three to four years before death , after which the differences diminished or disappeared. Among women in particular , the probability of institutional LTC was nearly equal across age , marital status and income groups in the last year before dementia-related death. Among those who died from non-dementia-related causes , in contrast , the differences widened until death. We show that individuals with dementia require intensive professional care at the end of life , regardless of their socio-demographic or economic resources. The results imply that the potential for extending community living for people with dementia is likely to be difficult through modification of their socio-demographic and economic environments.