 A high mean platelet volume ( MPV) level has been demonstrated to predict poor clinical outcomes in patients with cardiovascular disease. However , the relationship between MPV and mortality in patients with acute cardiorenal syndrome<disease><symptom> ( ACRS) is unknown. Therefore , we investigated the predictive value of MPV for in-hospital mortality of patients with ACRS who received continuous renal replacement therapy ( CRRT) in this study.We retrospectively analyzed the demographics , etiology , severity of illness , prognosis , and risk factors of ACRS patients who underwent CRRT in our hospital from January 2009 to December 2014. Patients were classified into 2 groups based on the prognosis and timing of CRRT. The receiver operating characteristic curve was used to examine the performance of MPV in predicting in-hospital mortality. Baseline characteristics , clinical , and hematological parameters at CRRT initiation were compared between the 2 groups. Factors influencing in-hospital mortality were analyzed by univariate logistic regression analysis.The median age of patients was 74 years. Acute myocardial infarction was the most common cause of ACRS , followed by acute decompensated heart<symptom> failure<symptom>. The in-hospital mortality was 51.4 %. Age , number of organ<symptom> failure<symptom> , APACHE II score , and MPV in the nonsurvivors were significantly higher than those in the survivors ( P < .05). However , the cardiac function and mean arterial pressure were significantly lower in the nonsurvivors ( P < .05). The prognosis of the early intervention group was better than the late-intervention group , but no significant difference was found ( P > .05). The area under the curve ( AUC) for in hospital mortality based on MPV was 0.735. Univariate analysis showed that age , cardiac function NYHA class , number of organ<symptom> failure<symptom> , APACHE II score , MAP , MPV , and use of vasopressors were associated with the prognosis of patients ( P < .05). These findings suggest that the prognosis of patients with ACRS who received CRRT was poor , and MPV might be useful as a marker for predicting the in-hospital mortality of these patients.