 Three-dimensional bioprinting has emerged as a promising technique in tissue engineering applications through the precise deposition of cells and biomaterials in a layer-by-layer fashion. However , the limited availability of hydrogel bioinks is frequently cited as a major issue for the advancement of cell-based extrusion bioprinting technologies. It is well known that highly viscous materials maintain their structure better , but also have decreased cell viability due to the higher forces which are required for extrusion. However , little is known about the effect of the two distinct components of dynamic modulus of viscoelastic materials , storage modulus ( G ') and loss modulus ( G ″) , on the printability of hydrogel-based bioinks. Additionally , ` printability ' has been poorly defined in the literature , mostly consisting of gross qualitative measures which do not allow for direct comparison of bioinks. This study developed a framework for evaluating printability and investigated the effect of dynamic modulus , including storage modulus ( G ') , loss modulus ( G ″) , and loss tangent ( G ″/ G ') on the printing outcome. Gelatin and alginate as model hydrogels were mixed at various concentrations to obtain hydrogel formulations with a wide range of storage and loss moduli. These formulations were then evaluated for the quantitatively defined values of extrudability , extrusion uniformity , and structural integrity. For extrudability , increasing either the loss or storage modulus increased the pressure required to extrude the bioink. A mathematical model relating the G ' and G ″ to the required extrusion pressure was derived based on the data. A lower loss tangent was correlated with increased structural integrity while a higher loss tangent correlated with increased extrusion uniformity. Gelatin-alginate composite hydrogels with a loss tangent in the range of 0.25-0.45 exhibited an excellent compromise between structural integrity and extrusion uniformity. In addition to the characterization of a common bioink , the methodology introduced in this paper could also be used to evaluate the printability of other bioinks in the future.