 Breath-hold ( BH) requirement remains the limiting factor on the spatio-temporal resolution and coverage of the cine balanced steady-state free precession ( bSSFP) cardiovascular magnetic resonance ( CMR) imaging. In this prospective two-center clinical trial , we validated the performance of a respiratory triggered ( RT) bSSFP cine sequence for evaluation of biventricular function. Our study included 23 asymptomatic healthy subjects and 60 consecutive patients from Institute A ( n = 39) and Institute B ( n = 21) referred for a clinically indicated CMR study. We implemented a RT sequence with a respiratory synchronized drive to steady state ( SS) of bSSFP signal , before the commencement of image data acquisition with prospective cardiac arrhythmia rejection and retrospectively cardiac gated reconstruction in real-time. Left ( LV) and right ( RV) ventricular function and LV mass were evaluated by using RT-bSSFP and conventional BH-bSSFP sequences with one cardiac cycle for SS preparation keeping all the imaging parameters identical. The performance of the sequences was evaluated by using quantitative and semi-quantitative metrics. Global LV and RV functional parameters and LV mass obtained from the RT-bSSFP and BH-bSSFP sequences were in good agreement. Quantitative metrics designed to capture fluctuation in SS signal intensity showed no significant difference between sequences. In addition , blood-to-myocardial contrast was nearly identical between sequences. The combined clinical score for image quality was excellent or good for 100 % of cases with the BH-bSSFP and 83 % of cases with the RT-bSSFP sequence. The de facto image acquisition time for RT-bSSFP was statistically significantly longer than that for conventional BH-bSSFP ( 7.9 ± 3.4 min vs. 5.1 ± 2.6 min). Cine RT-bSSFP is an alternative for evaluating global biventricular function with contrast and spatio-temporal resolutions that are similar to those attained by using the BH-bSSFP sequence , albeit with a modest time penalty and a small reduction in image quality.