 Soft-tissue deficiencies pose a challenge in a variety of disease processes when the end result is exposure of underlying tissue. Although multiple surgical techniques exist , the transposition of tissue from one location to another can cause donor-site morbidity , long incisions prone to dehiscence , and poor patient outcomes as a result. Use of tissue expansion prior to grafting procedures has been shown to have success in increasing available soft<disease> tissue to aid in repairing wounds<disease><symptom>. However , the current tissue expanders have biomechanical limits to the extent and rate of expansion that usually exceeds the tissue capacity , leading to incisional dehiscence or expander extrusion. Understanding the baseline biomechanical properties of the tissue to be expanded would provide useful information regarding surgical protocol employed for a given anatomical location. Therefore , the aim of this study was to test and compare the baseline ( preexpansion) biomechanical properties of different common expansion sites in dogs. Four samples measuring approximately 20 × 15 × 1 mm were harvested from 8 dogs. The samples were collected from the hard palate , alveolar mucosa , scalp , and chest of the animal and analyzed for stress , strain , maximum tangential stiffness , maximum tangential modulus , and tensile strength using a Texture Technologies TA.XT texture analyzer with corresponding biomechanical measurement software. Samples were compared as to their baseline biomechanical properties prior to any soft-tissue expansion. Histological sections of the samples were analyzed using hematoxylin eosin in an attempt to correlate the histological description to the biomechanical properties seen during testing. Summary statistics ( mean , standard deviation , standard error , range) are reported for stress , strain , maximum tangential stiffness , maximum tangential modulus , and tensile strength and for the histological parameters by intraoral site. Analysis of variance was used to compare the biomechanical and histological parameters among the 4 locations while accounting for multiple measurements from each dog. The scalp had significantly higher maximum stress ( σ Although different results were obtained than theorized , this study showed that the scalp had the greatest resiliency to expand prior to tearing , and the highest tangential modulus , with all sites having statistically similar modulus of elasticity. Based on this study , the scalp could be expanded more aggressively compared with the other sites.