 Distal radius fractures ( DRF) account for nearly one-fifth of all fractures in older adults , and women experience them 5 × as often as men. Most DRF occur with low impact injuries to the wrist with an outstretched hand , and are often managed via closed treatment and cast immobilization. Women sustaining a DRF are at risk for upper limb immobility , sensorimotor changes , edema<symptom> and type I complex regional pain syndrome<disease><symptom> ( CRPS). Since CRPS onset is likely influenced by alterations in the brain 's somatosensory region , a rehabilitation intervention , Graded Motor Imagery ( GMI) , aims to restore cortical representation , including sensory and motor function , of the affected limb. To date , there are no studies on the use of GMI in reducing risk of or preventing the onset of type I CRPS in women with DRF treated with cast immobilization. Due to a higher likelihood of women with this injury developing type I CRPS , it is important to early intervention is needed. This article describes a six-week randomized comparative effectiveness trial , where the outcomes of a modified GMI program ( mGMI) + standard of care ( SOC) group ( n = 33) are compared to a SOC only control group ( n = 33). Immediately following cast immobilization , both groups participate in four 1-h clinic-based sessions , and a home program for 10 min three times daily until cast removal. Blinded assessments occur within 1 week of cast immobilization ( baseline) , at three weeks post cast immbolization , cast removal , and at three months post cast removal. The primary outcomes are patient reported wrist/hand function and symptomology on the Patient Rated Wristand Hand Evaluation , McGill Pain Questionnaire , and Budapest CRPS Criteria. The secondary outcomes are grip strength , active range of motion as per goniometry , circumferential edema<symptom> measurements , and joint position sense. This study will investigate the early effects of mGMI + SOC hand therapy compared to SOC alone. We intend to investigate whether an intervention , specifically mGMI , used to treat preexisiting pain and motor<symptom> dysfunction<symptom> might also be used to mitigate these problems prior to their onset. If positive effects are observed , mGMI + SOC may be considered for incorporation into early rehabilitation program. This trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov with identifier NCT02957240 ( Approval date: April 20 , 2017).