 Spinocerebellar ataxia<symptom> type 3 ( SCA3) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of the polyglutamine repeat in the ataxin-3 protein. Expression of mutant ataxin-3 is known to result in transcriptional dysregulation , which can contribute to the cellular toxicity and neurodegeneration. Since the exact causative mechanisms underlying this process have not been fully elucidated , gene expression analyses in brains of transgenic SCA3 mouse models may provide useful insights. Here we characterised the MJD84 .2 SCA3 mouse model expressing the mutant human ataxin-3 gene using a multi-omics approach on brain and blood. Gene expression changes in brainstem , cerebellum , striatum<pathogen> and cortex were used to study pathological changes in brain , while blood gene expression and metabolites/lipids levels were examined as potential biomarkers for disease. Despite normal motor performance at 17.5 months of age , transcriptional changes in brain tissue of the SCA3 mice were observed. Most transcriptional changes occurred in brainstem and striatum<pathogen> , whilst cerebellum and cortex were only modestly affected. The most significantly altered genes in SCA3 mouse brain were Tmc3 , Zfp488 , Car2 , and Chdh. Based on the transcriptional changes , α-adrenergic and CREB pathways were most consistently altered for combined analysis of the four brain regions. When examining individual brain regions , axon guidance and synaptic transmission pathways were most strongly altered in striatum<pathogen> , whilst brainstem presented with strongest alterations in the pi-3 k cascade and cholesterol biosynthesis pathways. Similar to other neurodegenerative diseases , reduced levels of tryptophan and increased levels of ceramides , di- and triglycerides were observed in SCA3 mouse blood. The observed transcriptional changes in SCA3 mouse brain reveal parallels with previous reported neuropathology in patients , but also shows brain region specific effects as well as involvement of adrenergic signalling and CREB pathway changes in SCA3. Importantly , the transcriptional changes occur prior to onset of motor- and coordination deficits.