 Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDA) is a worldwide health problem. Early diagnosis and assessment may enhance the quality of life and survival of patients. The present study investigated the potential correlations between the gene and protein expression of laminin-332 ( LM-332 or laminin-5) and clinicopathological factors as well as evaluating its influence on the survival of patients with PDA. The expression of LM-332 subunit mRNAs in pancreatic carcinoma specimens from 37 patients was investigated by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR) analysis. Using immunohistochemical methods , the protein expressions of the three chains of LM-322 ( LNα3 , LNβ3 and LNγ2) were determined in 96 pancreatic carcinoma specimens , for association analysis with clinicopathological characteristics from patient data. The results of the prognosis analysis of three mRNAs expression datasets were validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas datasets. RT-qPCR results indicated that the overall relative values of LNα3 and LNγ2 mRNAs were increased in pancreatic carcinoma compared with the control. In immunostaining analyses LNα3 and LNγ2 expression was observed in all tumor tissues from the 96 patient samples. The expression levels of LNα3 , LNβ3 and LNγ2 were associated with each other. LNα3 and LNγ2 positivity was significantly associated with differentiation , depth of invasion and advanced stage ( P < 0.05). The samples were classified into three groups: Basement membrane ( B) type , cytoplasmic ( C) type and mixed ( M) type , according to their LNγ2 immunohistochemical expression patterns. The B type correlated significantly with differentiation ( P = 0.010) and the M type was significantly associated with hepatic metastasis ( P = 0.031). Patients with B-type LNγ2 demonstrated significantly better outcomes than patients with the C or M type ( P = 0.012 and P = 0.003 , respectively). Overexpression of the α3 , β3 and γ2 chains of LM-332 may serve an important role in the progression and prognosis of PDA.