 In February 2015 , the World Health Organization ( WHO) released `` Strategies toward ending preventable maternal mortality ( EPMM) '' ( EPMM Strategies) , a direction-setting report outlining global targets and strategies for reducing maternal mortality in the Sustainable Development Goal ( SDG) period. In May 2015 , the EPMM Working Group outlined a plan to develop a comprehensive monitoring framework to track progress toward the achievement of these targets and priorities. This monitoring framework was developed in two phases. Phase I , which focused on identifying indicators related to the proximal causes of maternal mortality , was completed in October 2015. This paper describes the process and results of Phase II , which was completed in November 2016 and aimed to build consensus on a set of indicators that capture information on the social , political , and economic determinants of maternal health and mortality. A total of 150 experts from more than 78 organizations worldwide participated in this second phase of the process to develop a comprehensive monitoring framework for EPMM. The experts considered a total of 118 indicators grouped into the 11 key themes outlined in the EPMM report , ultimately reaching consensus on a set of 25 indicators , five equity stratifiers , and one transparency stratifier. The indicators identified in Phase II will be used along with the Phase I indicators to monitor progress towards ending preventable maternal deaths. Together , they provide a means for monitoring not only the essential clinical interventions needed to save lives but also the equally important political , social , economic and health system determinants of maternal health and survival. These distal factors are essential to creating the enabling environment and high-performing health systems needed to ensure high-quality clinical care at the point of service for every woman , her fetus and newborn. They complement and support other monitoring efforts , in particular the `` Survive , Thrive , and Transform '' agenda laid out by the Global Strategy for Women 's , Children 's and Adolescents ' Health ( 2016-2030) and the SDG3 global target on maternal mortality.