 We used epidemiologic data of clinical periodontal status from two population-based samples in two countries , United States and Germany , to examine 1) the impact of age on the relative contribution of recession and pocketing on the distribution of clinical attachment loss , and 2) whether it is feasible to define age-dependent thresholds for severe periodontitis<disease>. The analytical sample was based on persons aged ≥ 30 and included 10,713 individuals in the United States , participants in NHANES 2009 to 2014 , and 3,071 individuals in Pomerania , Germany , participants in the SHIP-Trend 2008 to 2012. NHANES used a full-mouth examination protocol to collect data on recession ( R) , pocket depth ( PD) and clinical attachment loss ( CAL) for six sites/tooth on a maximum of 28 teeth; SHIP-Trend used a half-mouth examination at four sites/tooth. In both samples , percentile distributions of mean CAL/person were generated for each 5-year age interval. Age-dependent thresholds defining the upper quintile of mean CAL were calculated for both samples. The topographic intraoral distribution of CAL and the relative contribution of R and PD on CAL was assessed. Mean CAL increased linearly with age in both samples and was higher in SHIP-Trend than NHANES across the age spectrum. In contrast , mean PD was constant across age groups in both populations. R contributed increasingly to CAL with age , especially after 45 to 49 years. Upper<symptom> quintile mean CAL thresholds in NHANES were < 3 mm for ages up to 39 years , and under 3.58 mm in all other age groups. Corresponding values in SHIP-Trend were also < 3 mm in ages up to 39 years but increased linearly with age up to 7.21 mm for ages ≥ 75 years. Despite substantial differences in the overall severity of attachment loss between the two samples , common patterns of CAL and of the relative contribution of R and PD to CAL with increasing age were identified. Although periodontitis<disease> severity may vary in different populations , empirical evidence-driven definitions of CAL thresholds signifying disproportionate severity of periodontitis<disease> by age are feasible.