 Cannabis and cannabinoids have been used medically and recreationally for thousands of years and recently there has been a growing body of research in this area. With increased access now that medical marijuana is available in many jurisdictions , patients and providers want to know more about the evidence for benefits and risks of cannabinoid use. This paper provides an overview of the available cannabinoid-based formulations , a summary of the highest quality evidence for the use of cannabinoids for treating spasticity and pain associated with multiple sclerosis ( MS) , and a discussion of possible dosing regimens based on information from these studies. Two recent high-quality systematic reviews concluded that the only strong evidence for medical marijuana in neurological disorders was for reducing the symptoms of patient-reported spasticity and central pain in MS and that the only complementary and alternative medicine ( CAM) intervention in MS with strong supportive evidence was cannabinoids. Based on this review , they concluded that nabiximols ( Sativex oral spray) , oral cannabis extract ( OCE) , and synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC) are probably effective at reducing patient-reported symptoms of spasticity in people with MS , but OCE and synthetic THC were not found to be effective for reducing physician-administered measures of spasticity. In addition , nabiximols , OCE , and synthetic THC are probably effective at reducing MS-related pain. Cannabinoids were generally well-tolerated. However , cannabis use has been associated with an increased risk of psychosis and schizophrenia in at-risk individuals , there is growing evidence that cannabis can increase the risk for cardiovascular diseases , including myocardial infarction ( MI) , hypertension , heart<symptom> failure<symptom> , and stroke , and a recently recognized adverse effect of cannabis is cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome<disease><symptom>. The medical use of cannabinoids remains controversial. While cannabinoids have been studied for a variety of neurologic disorders , there is strongest evidence to indicate benefits in treatment of spasticity and neuropathic pain in multiple sclerosis. Although the best dose for an individual remains uncertain , most participants in the studies discussed in this paper used between 20 and 40 mg of THC a day in divided doses. Adverse events in studies were generally more common in the groups using cannabinoid products but serious adverse events were rare and cannabis products were generally well-tolerated. Cannabis use does appear to be associated with increased risk of certain adverse events , including psychosis , cardiovascular diseases , and cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome<disease><symptom>.