 All Helicobacter<pathogen> pylori-infected patients are recommended for eradication with an appropriate regimen in each geographic area. The choice of the therapy is somewhat dependent on the antimicrobial susceptibility. The rate of clarithromycin resistance has been increasing and is associated with failure; thus , susceptibility testing is recommended before triple therapy with clarithromycin. However , antimicrobial susceptibility testing is not yet clinically available and an alternative newly developed acid inhibitor vonoprazan is used for triple therapy in Japan. The aim of this study was to determine whether vonoprazan-based triple therapy is plausible treatment in H.<pathogen> pylori<pathogen> eradication. A retrospective observational study of H.<pathogen> pylori<pathogen> eradication was conducted in a single institute. The patients who requested antimicrobial susceptibility testing were treated with susceptibility-guided proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy in International University of Health and Welfare Hospital from 2013 to 2016. Other patients were treated with empirical treatment with a proton pump inhibitor. From 2015 to 2016 , vonoprazan-based triple treatment ( vonoprazan , 20 mg; amoxicillin , 750 mg; and clarithromycin , 200 or 400 mg , b.i.d.) was conducted , and its effectiveness was compared with susceptibility-guided proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy. We also investigated the improvement in eradication rate when antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed , and compared the outcomes of vonoprazan-based and proton pump inhibitor-based empirical therapy. A total of 1355 patients who received first-line eradication treatment were enrolled in the present study. The eradication rates of the empirical proton pump inhibitor-based therapy and the vonoprazan-based therapy group in a per-protocol analysis were 86.3 % ( 95 % CI 83.8-88.8) and 97.4 % ( 95 % CI 95.7-99.1) , respectively. In 212 patients who received antimicrobial susceptibility testing , the rate of clarithromycin resistant was 23.5 % and the eradication rate in susceptibility-guided treatment was 95.7 % ( 95 % CI 92.9-98.4). The difference between susceptibility-guided and vonoprazan-based therapy was- 1.7 % ( 95 % CI- 4.9 to 1.5 %) , and the non-inferiority of vonoprazan-based triple therapy was confirmed. Vonoprazan-based triple therapy was effective as susceptibility-guided triple therapy for H.<pathogen> pylori<pathogen> eradication. An empirical triple therapy with vonoprazan is preferable even in area with high rates of clarithromycin-resistance. Trial registration The study was retrospectively registered in University Hospital Medical Information Network ( UMIN000032351).