 Diffuse large B cell lymphoma ( DLBCL) arises from extranodal organs in about 30 % of cases. Its prognosis and risk of recurrence in the central nervous system ( CNS) vary according to the primary site of origin. Recent studies begin to clarify these differences using molecular classification. Testicular , breast , and uterine DLBCL ( as well as possibly primary<disease> cutaneous DLBCL , leg-type) share a high prevalence of the non-germinal center B cell ( non-GCB) phenotype and the MYD88/CD79B-mutated ( MCD) genotype. These biologic features , which resemble primary CNS lymphoma , may underlie their stage-independent propensity for CNS involvement. Management of these lymphomas should involve CNS prophylaxis , preferably using systemic high-dose methotrexate to prevent intraparenchymal recurrence. Involvement of the kidneys , adrenal glands , ovary , bone<disease> marrow , lung , or pleura usually indicates disseminated disease , conferring worse prognosis. Involvement of these sites is often associated with high CNS-International Prognostic Index ( IPI) , concurrent MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 rearrangements , or intravascular lymphoma-risk factors warranting CNS prophylaxis. In contrast , craniofacial , thyroid , localized bone , or gastric lymphomas have a variable prevalence of the non-GCB phenotype and lack MYD88 mutations. Their outcomes with standard immunochemotherapy are excellent , and the risk of CNS recurrence is low. We recommend individualized consideration of CNS prophylaxis based on the CNS-IPI score and anatomical proximity in cases of epidural , orbital , or skull involvement. Rituximab-containing immunochemotherapy is a standard approach for all extranodal DLBCLs. Surgery is no longer required for any primary site , but routine consolidative radiation therapy is recommended for testicular lymphoma. Radiation therapy also appears to be associated with better progression-free survival in primary bone DLBCL. Future studies should better distinguish primary from secondary sites of extranodal involvement , and investigate the association of newly identified genotypes with the risk of CNS or systemic recurrence.