 A city is a mixed ecosystem of nature , economy , and society and is simultaneously transforming natural areas and adapting to nature. Urbanization causes the population to expand rapidly , leading to rapid expansions of scale. Consequently , the proportions of impermeable surfaces ( ISs) and greenspaces ( GSs) change drastically , which has a considerable influence on the urban thermal environment. The aim of this study was to research the effects of spatio-temporal landscape patterns on land surface temperature ( LST) and between GS and IS in the city of Xi'an using the urban-rural gradient , the moving split-window algorithm ( MSA) , multiple grid resolutions , and landscape metrics based on three-phase Landsat data. The results showed that there was a significantly positively correlated with IS density and significantly negatively correlated with the GS density from the urban center to rural areas. Over the past 25 years , the main urban area of Xi'an has expanded by nearly 6.2 times its initial size. The correlation between IS density and LST increased with increasing grid size , and the correlation between GS density and LST increased with decreasing grid size. Thus , LST is highly sensitive to the ISs and GSs at particular grid sizes. The correlation coefficients of the ISs and GSs with LST increased with decreasing grid size during 1992-2016. Hence , the LST was less sensitive to IS and the GS densities in conjunction with larger grid sizes. The class area ( CA) and the landscape shape index ( LSI) of the ISs were significantly positively correlated with the LST , whereas the CA and largest patch index ( LPI) of the GSs were negatively correlated with the LST. The LST of the ISs in 1992 , 2006 , and 2016 were 1.6 , 1.8 , and 3.9 °C higher , respectively , than those of the GSs , indicating that GSs are important to lowering urban LSTs. Therefore , the government and urban planning departments should consider optimizing the spatial patterns of ISs and GSs to fully exploit the cooling effect of optimally configured GSs , which would be conducive to the sustainable development of the urban ecological environment.