 Scleroderma-associated pulmonary arterial hypertension ( SSc-PAH) is associated with worse outcome than idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension ( IPAH) , potentially due to worse right ventricular adaptation to load as suggested by pressure-volume loop analysis. The value of non-invasive load-adaptability metrics has not been fully explored in SSc-PAH. This study sought to assess whether patients with incident SSc-PAH have worse echocardiographic load-adaptability metrics than patients with IPAH. Twenty-two patients with incident SSc-PAH were matched 1:1 with IPAH based on pulmonary<disease> vascular resistance. Echocardiographic load-adaptability indices were divided into: surrogates of ventriculo-arterial coupling ( e.g. right ventricular area change/end-systolic area) , indices reflecting the proportionality of load adaptation ( e.g. tricuspid regurgitation velocity-time integral normalized for average right ventricular radius) , and simple ratios ( e.g. tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion/right ventricular systolic pressure). The prognostic value of these indices for clinical worsening ( i.e. death , transplant , or hospitalization for heart<symptom> failure<symptom>) at one year was explored. The two groups were comprised of patients of similar age , with similar cardiac index , pulmonary resistance , capacitance and NT-proBNP levels ( p > 0.10). There was no difference in baseline right ventricular dimension , function or load-adaptability indices. At one year , eight ( 36.4 %) SSc-PAH patients had experienced clinical worsening ( eight hospitalizations and two deaths) versus one hospitalization in the IPAH group. Load adaptation at one year in survivors was not worse in SSc-PAH ( p > 0.33). Patients with IPAH responded better to therapy than SSc-PAH in terms of reduction of right ventricular areas at one year ( p < 0.05). Right ventricular load-adaptability echocardiographic indices do not appear to capture the increased risk of negative outcomes at one year associated with SSc-PAH.