 In low-income countries it is difficult to obtain complete data that show spatial heterogeneity in the risk of tuberculosis<disease> within-and-between smaller administrative units. This may contribute to the partial effectiveness of tuberculosis<disease> control programs. The aim of this study was to estimate the spatial risk of tuberculosis<disease> distribution in Gurage Zone , Southern Ethiopia using limited spatial datasets. A total of 1601 patient data that were retrieved from unit tuberculosis<disease> registers were included in the final analyses. The population and geo-location data were obtained from the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia. Altitude data were extracted from ASTER Global Digital Elevation Model Version 2. Aggregated datasets from sample of 169 ( 40 %) , 254 ( 60 %) and 338 ( 80 %) kebeles were used to estimate the spatial risk of TB distribution in the Gurage Zone by using a geostatistical kriging approach. The best set of input parameters were decided based on the lowest prediction error criteria of the cross-validation technique. ArcGIS 10.2 was used for the spatial data analyses. The best semivariogram models were the Pentaspherical , Rational Quadratic , and K-Bessel for the 40 , 60 and 80 % spatial datasets , respectively. The predictive accuracies of the models have improved with the true anisotropy , altitude and latitude covariates , the change in detrending pattern from local to global , and the increase in size of spatial dataset. The risk of tuberculosis<disease> was estimated to be higher at western , northwest , southwest and southeast parts of the study area , and crossed between high and low at west-central parts. This study has underlined that the geostatistical kriging approach can be applied to estimate the spatial risk of tuberculosis<disease> distribution in data limited settings. The estimation results may help local public health authorities measure burden of the disease at all locations , identify geographical areas that require more attention , and evaluate the impacts of intervention programs.