 This narrative review summarizes the current evidence about the role that the fabrication and presence of dental prostheses and tooth-related factors have on the initiation and progression of gingivitis<disease> and periodontitis<disease>. Placement of restoration margins within the junctional epithelium and supracrestal connective tissue attachment can be associated with gingival inflammation<symptom> and , potentially , recession. The presence of fixed prostheses finish lines within the gingival sulcus or the wearing of partial , removable dental prostheses does not cause gingivitis<disease> if patients are compliant with self-performed plaque control and periodic maintenance. However , hypersensitivity<disease> reactions to the prosthesis dental material can be present. Procedures adopted for the fabrication of dental restorations and fixed prostheses have the potential to cause traumatic loss of periodontal supporting tissues. Tooth anatomic factors , root abnormalities , and fractures can act as plaque-retentive factors and increase the likelihood of gingivitis<disease> and periodontitis<disease>. Tooth anatomic factors , such as root abnormalities and fractures , and tooth relationships in the dental arch and with the opposing dentition can enhance plaque retention. Restoration margins located within the gingival sulcus do not cause gingivitis<disease> if patients are compliant with self-performed plaque control and periodic maintenance. Tooth-supported and/or tooth-retained restorations and their design , fabrication , delivery , and materials have often been associated with plaque retention and loss of attachment. Hypersensitivity<disease> reactions can occur to dental materials. Restoration margins placed within the junctional epithelium and supracrestal connective tissue attachment can be associated with inflammation<symptom> and , potentially , recession. However , the evidence in several of the reviewed areas , especially related to the biologic mechanisms by which these factors affect the periodontium , is not conclusive. This highlights the need for additional well-controlled animal studies to elucidate biologic mechanisms , as well as longitudinal prospective human trials. Adequate periodontal assessment and treatment , appropriate instructions , and motivation in self-performed plaque control and compliance to maintenance protocols appear to be the most important factors to limit or avoid potential negative effects on the periodontium caused by fixed and removable prostheses.