 Nowadays , medical information regarding various diseases and disorders is available online. The Internet has become the first choice for the patient when it comes to gathering detailed information about a disease or problem. Therefore , in view of this frequent occurrence , the information that is provided online needs to be accurate; providing comprehensive facts , transparency , and quality. A study was carried out to determine the accuracy of information related to breast cancer on various websites. Websites which share information online about breast cancer , in the Arabic language , were selected. The quality of the websites was to be evaluated; however , there is no standard method for evaluating the quality of health websites. Hence , a rating form was developed for this study , to determine the completeness and transparency of a specific number of websites using three popular search engines. A 16-item questionnaire was prepared and validated to determine the quality of individual websites in addition to using the DISCERN instrument for assessing consumer health information. Most of the websites ( approximately 47 %) were deemed to be commercial in nature. Thirty-three percent were developed by non-profit organizations. They disseminated information concerning the risk factors ( 93 %) , screening , mammography ( 93 %) , surgical treatment ( 93 %) , chemotherapy ( 89 %) , radiotherapy ( 93 %) , and complementary medicine ( 0 %) surrounding the treatment of breast cancer. About 67 % of the websites were estimated to give completely correct information. Incidentally , only five websites had a healthcare professional or expert as the author , while nine of them had no author. Although numerous breast cancer-related websites exist , most do a poor job in providing Arabic-speaking women with comprehensive information about breast cancer surgery. Providing easily-accessible , high-quality online information has the potential to significantly improve patients ' experiences.