 Augmentation with aripiprazole is an effective pharmacotherapy for treatment-resistant late-life depression<symptom> ( LLD). However , aripiprazole can cause extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS) such as akathisia and parkinsonism; these symptoms are distressing and can contribute to treatment discontinuation. We investigated the clinical trajectories and predictors of akathisia and parkinsonism in older patients receiving aripiprazole augmentation for treatment-resistant LLD. Between 2009 and 2013 , depressed older adults who did not remit with venlafaxine were randomized to aripiprazole or placebo in a 12-week trial. Participants were 60 years or older and met DSM-IV-TR criteria for major depressive episode with at least moderate symptoms. The presence of akathisia and parkinsonism was measured at each visit using the Barnes Akathisia Scale ( BAS) and Simpson-Angus Scale ( SAS) , respectively. In an exploratory analysis , we examined a broad set of potential clinical predictors and correlates: age , sex , ethnicity , weight , medical comorbidity , baseline anxiety<symptom> severity , depression<symptom> severity , concomitant medications including rescue medications , and aripiprazole dosage. Twenty-four ( 26.7 %) of 90 participants randomized to aripiprazole and who had akathisia scores available developed akathisia compared to 11 ( 12.2 %) of 90 randomized to placebo. Greater depression<symptom> severity was the main predictor of treatment-emergent akathisia. Most participants who developed akathisia improved over time , especially with reductions in dosage. Fifteen ( 16.5 %) of 91 participants taking aripiprazole and who had parkinsonism scores available developed parkinsonism , but no clinical predictors or correlates were identified. Akathisia is a common side effect of aripiprazole , but it is typically mild and responds to dose reduction. Patients with greater baseline depression<symptom> may warrant closer monitoring for akathisia. More research is needed to understand the course and predictors of treatment-emergent EPS with antipsychotic augmentation for treatment-resistant LLD. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00892047.