 Cardiovascular complications are the leading cause of death after noncardiac surgery. Major abdominal operations represent the largest category of procedures considered to have an increased risk of cardiovascular complications. The current aim was to examine trends in the incidence of mortality , perioperative myocardial infarction , and cardiac arrest to determine the presence of potential volume-outcome relationships. We performed a retrospective analysis of the Nationwide Inpatient Sample for patients undergoing elective , open abdominal esophagectomy , gastrectomy , pancreatectomy , nephrectomy , hepatectomy , splenectomy , and colectomy ( major abdominal surgery) during 2008-2014. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to determine the impact of operative volume on rates of myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest , and mortality. Of the 962,754 elective admissions for major abdominal surgery , 1.4 % experienced in-hospital mortality , 0.7 % myocardial infarction , and 0.35 % cardiac arrest. Myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest were associated with a 24-fold increase in risk of perioperative mortality. Compared with institutions that have a very low volume of operations , those hospitals with larger volumes of operations had a decreased risk of cardiac arrest and incident mortality after cardiovascular complications , but the odds of myocardial infarction were greatest at higher operative-volume hospitals. The annual all-cause mortality and myocardial infarction rates decreased over time , but the incidence of cardiac arrest increased. Myocardial infarction or cardiac arrest after major abdominal surgery increased the odds of mortality with superior rescue after cardiovascular complications at higher volume institutions. Across all US hospitals performing major abdominal surgery , the rate of cardiac arrest increased without a concomitant increase in myocardial infarction or mortality. Novel targets for risk modification of myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest as well as investigation of processes that facilitate rescue after these complications at higher operative-volume hospitals are needed to delineate quality improvement opportunities.