 To determine the value of radiomics in predicting lymph node ( LN) metastasis in resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC) patients. Data of 230 consecutive patients were retrospectively analyzed ( 154 in the training set and 76 in the test set). A total of 1576 radiomics features were extracted from arterial-phase CT images of the whole primary tumor. LASSO logistic regression was performed to choose the key features and construct a radiomics signature. A radiomics nomogram incorporating this signature was developed on the basis of multivariable analysis in the training set. Nomogram performance was determined and validated with respect to its discrimination , calibration and reclassification. Clinical usefulness was estimated by decision curve analysis. The radiomics signature including five features was significantly associated with LN metastasis. The radiomics nomogram , which incorporated the signature and CT-reported LN status ( i.e. size criteria) , distinguished LN metastasis with an area under curve ( AUC) of 0.758 in the training set , and performance was similar in the test set ( AUC 0.773). Discrimination of the radiomics nomogram exceeded that of size criteria alone in both the training set ( p < 0.001) and the test set ( p = 0.005). Integrated discrimination improvement ( IDI) and categorical net reclassification improvement ( NRI) showed significant improvement in prognostic value when the radiomics signature was added to size criteria in the test set ( IDI 17.3 %; p < 0.001; categorical NRI 52.3 %; p < 0.001). Decision curve analysis supported that the radiomics nomogram is superior to size criteria. The radiomics nomogram provides individualized risk estimation of LN metastasis in ESCC patients and outperforms size criteria. • A radiomics nomogram was built and validated to predict LN metastasis in resectable ESCC. • The radiomics nomogram outperformed size criteria. • Radiomics helps to unravel intratumor heterogeneity and can serve as a novel biomarker for determination of LN status in resectable ESCC.