 Objectives and importance of study: Yoga improves balance<symptom> and mobility , and therefore has potential as a fall prevention strategy , yet its validity for preventing falls has not been established. The Otago Exercise Programme ( OEP) and tai chi are proven to prevent falls. This study aimed to evaluate the perceptions and preferences of older people towards a yoga-based program with potential to decrease falls , to compare these perceptions to the views expressed about the OEP and tai chi , and to identify participant characteristics associated with a preference for the yoga program. Survey. Participants were 235 community-dwellers aged 60 years or older who were not participating or had not previously participated ( within the past 10 years) in yoga-based exercise. Participants completed a self-report survey measuring demographics , physical activity level and attitude. They then viewed explanations of the yoga-based program , the OEP and tai chi. Participants completed the Attitudes to Falls-Related Interventions Scale ( AFRIS) to measure program acceptability and identified their preferred program. Acceptability scores and preference were compared between the programs , and factors associated with yoga preference were identified with analysis of variance. The mean age of participants ( 69 % female) was 69.4 years ( standard deviation 7.4). All programs were rated as equally acceptable ( p = 0.17) , with AFRIS scores ranging from 28.1 to 29.4. Eighty-two people ( 35 %) preferred yoga , 32 % chose the OEP and 33 % chose tai chi. Overall , people who preferred yoga were significantly younger , healthier , less fearful of falling , and perceived exercise more positively than people who preferred the OEP ( p values ranged from 0.03 to < 0.001). The characteristics of people who preferred yoga and those who preferred tai chi did not vary significantly. Yoga was perceived to be appropriate and was as popular as two validated fall prevention programs. Yoga warrants further investigation as a fall prevention strategy , particularly for ` younger ' and healthier people aged 60 years or older.