 Obesity is a serious health problem that affects a wide range of patients and disease processes. The purpose of this study is to evaluate perceptions , knowledge , and practice habits of primary care providers ( PCPs) regarding the care of patients with obesity , including barriers to effective care and their experience with bariatric surgery in our integrated health network. Integrated health network. A 16-question survey was distributed electronically to 160 PCPs at our integrated health network. Results were analyzed to identify attitudes , knowledge , practice habits , and bariatric surgery referral patterns while treating patients with obesity. Among 160 PCPs , 45 ( 28.1 %) responded. Specialty , sex , patient population , insurance accepted , and practice years of PCPs were reported. Most PCPs reported `` always '' calculating patient body mass index ( 88.9 %) with only 13.3 % `` always '' discussing the body mass index results. Respondents most frequently prescribed diet and exercise to patients with obesity and rarely prescribed medications , with bariatric surgery referrals falling between the two. PCPs viewed management of obesity as the responsibility of the patient ( 97.6 %) and the PCP ( 100 %). Ninety-three percent felt obesity is a common diagnosis in their practice , but no one correctly identified the prevalence of obesity in our region. Respondents demonstrated adequate knowledge regarding medical consequences of obesity. A majority was able to identify the correct eligibility criteria for bariatric surgery , as well specific medical problems that can improve or be eliminated postoperatively. While 61.9 % of respondents were aware of free weight<symptom> loss<symptom> and bariatric informational sessions offered , 28.6 % reported that they were unfamiliar with existing bariatric surgeons. One respondent was not aware of any bariatric surgery performed. Some PCPs reported prior negative experiences with post-bariatric surgery patients , and thus were hesitant to refer additional patients. PCPs report discussing an obesity diagnosis with patients but are not always using body mass index in that discussion. They most often prescribe lifestyle modification as treatment for patients , which they believe to be most effective to treat obesity. However , they report only one third of their patients are motivated to lose weight. Additionally , they demonstrate appropriate knowledge of indications and benefits of bariatric surgery. A majority of the PCPs is aware of weight<symptom> loss<symptom> informational sessions and bariatric services provided within our integrated health network , but almost one third were unable to identify a surgeon , a possible target for improved relationships. Barriers to care include patient motivation and insurance coverage.