 Investigate the long-term effect of dentin pretreatment with 0.05 or 0.1 % caffeic acid phenethyl ester ( CAPE) on ( 1) bond strength of resin composite to dentin by a three-step etch-and-rinse ( Adper Scotchbond Multipurpose/ ASB) or a two-step self-etch adhesive system ( Clearfil SE Bond / CSE) , ( 2) their fracture mode , ( 3) the micromorphological features of the hybrid layer formed; and ( 4) the level of MMP-2 in dentin ( after application , using a correlative immunoexpression/quantification approach). Composite resin blocks were fabricated on 48 third molars ( n = 6) , according to the type of adhesive and treatment ( control , CAPE 0.05 % and CAPE 0.1 %). Slices were obtained for scanning electron microscopy ( SEM) evaluation , and sticks were fabricated for microtensile tests ( 24 h and 1 year). Aliquots of dentin powder were distributed ( n = 12) according to the treatment and the MMP-2 concentration was determined by ELISA. Tukey test showed that ASB groups presented higher BS in 24 h than CSE groups. ASB presented a reduction in BS values after 1-year. ASB and CSE presented no significant differences in BS after 1-year. CAPE had no effect on BS for both adhesive systems. The predominant failure mode for the ASB groups were adhesive; when 0.1 % CAPE was applied there was a predominance of mixed fractures. Regarding the CSE group , 0.05 % CAPE led to more adhesive failures , and the 0.1 % concentration resulted in a higher number of cohesive failures in dentin. Higher MMP-2 concentrations were detected for the groups that did not undergo demineralization treatment , and the lowest values for the ASB groups treated with CAPE. SEM analysis showed no influence of pretreatment with CAPE. CAPE did not influence the BS of the adhesives tested , or the micromorphology of the hybrid layer , irrespective of concentration or storage time. CAPE affected the fracture pattern at 24 h , depending on the concentration and the adhesive system used. Immunoassay analysis showed that CAPE 0.1 % reduced the MMP-2 concentration in the ASB adhesive without affecting bond strength to dentin.