 Greater frequency and intensity level of sports participation may be contributing to an increasing incidence of anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) tears in skeletally immature athletes. Prior studies have assessed the functional outcomes of physeal-respecting ACL reconstruction in this patient population based on adult functional outcomes scoring systems; however , there is only sparse literature evaluating functional outcomes of this specific patient population. This study aimed to retrospectively evaluate a cohort of pediatric patients who had undergone all-epiphyseal ACL reconstruction ( AEACLR) with a set of clinically validated , pediatric-specific patient-reported functional outcomes scores ( PRFOS). We hypothesized that patients who had rerupture would have significantly lower outcomes scores compared with those who did not rerupture. This was a retrospective evaluation of AEACLR patients at a single , tertiary care , children 's hospital within a period of 2 years and had > 6 months of initial clinical postoperative follow-up. Those who consented to participation were provided an online combined survey including questions relating to demographics and rerupture as well as 3 validated pediatric PRFOS. Statistical analysis of the cohort demographics , PRFOS , and subgroup analysis of the rerupture group compared with the ACL intact patients was performed. The mean functional outcome scores at a mean of 48.6 months from surgery demonstrated excellent return to functional activity ( Mean International Knee Documentation Committee , 93.8; Pedi-Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System , 98.8; Pedi- Functional Activity Brief Score , 21.6). There was a 13 % rerupture rate and rerupture patients had a significantly decreased Pedi-International Knee Documentation Committee ( 94.9 intact vs. 86.0 rerupture; P = 0.001) and Pedi-Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System ( 99.4 intact vs. 95.4 rupture; P = 0.001) scores. AEACLR patients have excellent outcomes based on pediatric-specific PRFOS. Rerupture patients demonstrated a decrease in functional outcomes scores compared with intact ACL patients. The results demonstrate the efficacy of AEACLR as measured by pediatric-specific functional outcome scores for the treatment of ACL rupture in skeletally immature athletes. Level III-retrospective comparative study.