 Intentional cranial deformations are the result of external mechanical forces exerted on the skull vault that modify the morphology of various craniofacial structures such as the skull base , the orbits and the zygoma. In this controlled study , we investigated the 3D shape of the orbital inner mould and the orbital volume in various types of intentional deformations and in adult non-operated scaphocephaly- the most common type of craniosynostosis- using dedicated morphometric methods. CT scans were performed on 32 adult skulls with intentional deformations , 21 adult skull with scaphocephaly and 17 non-deformed adult skulls from the collections of the Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle in Paris , France. The intentional deformations group included six skulls with Toulouse deformations , eight skulls with circumferential deformations and 18 skulls with antero-posterior deformations. Mean shape models were generated based on a semi-automatic segmentation technique. Orbits were then aligned and compared qualitatively and quantitatively using colour-coded distance maps and by computing the mean absolute distance , the Hausdorff distance , and the Dice similarity coefficient. Orbital symmetry was assessed after mirroring , superimposition and Dice similarity coefficient computation. We showed that orbital shapes were significantly and symmetrically modified in intentional deformations and scaphocephaly compared with non-deformed control skulls. Antero-posterior and circumferential deformations demonstrated a similar and severe orbital deformation pattern resulting in significant smaller orbital volumes. Scaphocephaly and Toulouse deformations had similar deformation patterns but had no effect on orbital volumes. This study showed that intentional deformations and scaphocephaly significantly interact with orbital growth. Our approach was nevertheless not sufficient to identify specific modifications caused by the different types of skull deformations or by scaphocephaly.