 Treating articular cartilage lesions<symptom> is clinically challenging. However , whether the addition of autologous platelet-rich plasma ( PRP) to bioimplants along with early rehabilitation exercise provides therapeutic effects and regenerates the osteochondral defect remains uninvestigated. The addition of PRP to a polylactic-co-glycolic acid ( PLGA) scaffold along with continuous passive motion ( CPM) in osteochondral defects may offer beneficial in situ microenvironment changes to facilitate hyaline cartilage and subchondral bone tissue repair. Controlled laboratory study. In 26 rabbits , 52 critical osteochondral defects were created in bilateral femoral trochlear grooves. The rabbits were allocated to 1 of the following 3 groups: PRP gel ( PG group) , PRP + PLGA scaffold ( PP group) , and PRP + PLGA scaffold + CPM ( PPC group). At 4 and 12 weeks after surgery , the specimens were assessed by a macroscopic examination , a histological evaluation with immunohistochemical staining , and micro-computed tomography. The PPC group exhibited the most favorable therapeutic outcomes in terms of hyaline cartilage regeneration. At week 4 , the PPC group exhibited significantly higher levels of glycosaminoglycan ( GAG) and collagen ( COL<pathogen>) II and modest increases in COL<pathogen> I , matrix metalloproteinase-3 ( MMP-3) , and inflammatory cells with tumor necrosis<symptom> factor-alpha ( TNF-α) and interleukin-6 ( IL-6). At week 12 , the PPC group had significantly higher tissue repair scores , corresponding to a sound articular cartilage surface and chondrocyte and collagen arrangement. This group demonstrated restored hyaline cartilage and mineralized bone volume per tissue volume , which had an integrating structure in the repair site. However , the PG and PP groups exhibited mainly fibrous tissue and fibrocartilage , corresponding to higher expressions of COL<pathogen> I , TNF-α , IL-6 , and MMP-3. PRP with a PLGA graft along with early CPM exercise is promising for the repair of osteochondral defects in rabbit knee joints. This study demonstrates the efficacy of a triad therapy involving the addition of PRP to bioimplants along with early CPM intervention for hyaline cartilage and subchondral regeneration. However , PRP alone ( with or without PLGA implants) is limited to osteochondral defect repair without significant regeneration.