 Although it has been purported that HIV-positive individuals may experience a greater degree of intoxication than HIV-negative individuals following acute alcohol consumption , no research to date has empirically tested this supposition. The present investigation entailed a randomized controlled experiment to identify whether the administration of a weight-specified dose of alcohol would lead to differential blood alcohol concentrations ( BACs) among HIV-positive versus HIV-negative men. In a specialized barroom laboratory , 143 men ( n = 76 HIV-positive and n = 67 HIV-negative; mean age = 42.9) consumed beverages based on a formulation of 0.7 g alcohol/kg body<symptom> weight over a 15-minute time frame. BAC was assessed via breathalyzer at 2 set time points ( 10 and 13 minutes postconsumption) and then periodically until detoxification ( BAC < 0.040 %). Primary outcomes included ( i) area under the curve ( AUC) , calculated based on all of one 's BAC readings , ( ii) `` BAC-EXP , '' defined as one 's BAC reading 13 minutes postconsumption , and ( iii) BAC-PEAK , defined as one 's highest recorded BAC reading. Contrary to predictions , AUC ( t ( 141) = 2.23 , p = 0.027) , BAC-EXP ( t ( 141) = 2.68 , p = 0.008) , and BAC-PEAK ( t ( 141) = 2.29 , p = 0.023) were significantly lower among HIV-positive versus HIV-negative participants. These effects were sustained in multivariable models controlling for age , race , and AUDIT-based hazardous drinking classification. Among the HIV-positive sample , outcomes did not significantly differ based on HIV<pathogen> viral load detectability , antiretroviral therapy ( ART) status , or ART adherence. The administration of a controlled , weight-specified dose of alcohol led to lower BACs among HIV-positive versus HIV-negative participants. These differences might derive from decreased body fat percentage and delayed gastric emptying associated with HIV<pathogen> seropositivity; however , additional research is necessary to verify these mechanisms. Unique alcohol dosing formulas based on HIV<pathogen> serostatus may be required in future alcohol administration experiments involving HIV-positive samples.