 Viral<disease> infection<disease> of the bronchial epithelium disrupts the barrier properties of the epithelium in healthy individuals and those with lung disease. Repair of the bronchial epithelium is dependent of the formation of a provisional fibrin matrix and migration of epithelial cells to cover denuded areas , followed by proliferation and differentiation. The objective was to test the hypothesis that poly I: C , a model of viral<disease> infection<disease> , limits epithelial repair through the stimulated release of matrix metalloproteinase-13 ( MMP-13). Confluent layers of cultured normal human primary bronchial epithelial cells ( NHBE) and SV-40 virus-transformed 16HBE14o- bronchial epithelial cells were mechanically wounded , and video microscopy used to measure the rate of wound<disease><symptom> closure over 2 hours , in the absence and presence of poly I: C ( 1-20 μg/mL). MMP-13 , tissue factor and endothelin release were measured by ELISA. The effect of inhibitors of MMP-13 activity and expression and a nonspecific endothelin receptor antagonist , bosentan , on the rate of epithelial repair was investigated. Poly I: C limited the rate of epithelial repair , and NHBE were significantly more sensitive to poly I: C effects than 16HBE14o- cells. NHBE , but not 16HBE14o- , released MMP-13 in response to poly I: C. Inhibitors of MMP-13 activity ( WAY 170523) and expression ( dimethyl fumarate) significantly enhanced the rate of repair. Bosentan enhanced the rate of bronchial epithelial repair by a mechanism that was independent of MMP-13. Bronchial epithelial repair is limited by endothelin and by MMP-13 , a protease that degrades coagulation factors , such as fibrinogen , and matrix proteins essential for epithelial repair. Further studies with primary cells from patients are needed to confirm whether repurposing bosentan and inhibitors of MMP-13 expression or activity , for inhalation may be a useful therapeutic strategy in diseases where repeated cycles of epithelial injury and repair occur , such as asthma and COPD.