 Switching from therapy based on a boosted protease inhibitor to bictegravir , emtricitabine , and tenofovir alafenamide could avoid drug interactions and unwanted side-effects in virologically suppressed adults with HIV-1 infection , while maintaining a high barrier to resistance and providing a simplified once-daily , single-tablet regimen. Here , we report 48 week results of a phase 3 study investigating this switch. In this multicentre , randomised , open-label , active-controlled , non-inferiority , phase 3 trial , adults with HIV-1 infection were enrolled at 121 outpatient centres in ten countries. Eligible participants were aged 18 years or older , had an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 50 mL per min or higher , had been virologically suppressed ( plasma HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies per mL) for 6 months or more before screening , and were on a regimen consisting of boosted atazanavir or darunavir plus either emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or abacavir and lamivudine. We randomly assigned participants ( 1:1) , using a computer-generated randomisation sequence , to switch to co-formulated once-daily bictegravir ( 50 mg) , emtricitabine ( 200 mg) , and tenofovir alafenamide ( 25 mg) , herein known as the bictegravir group , or to remain on their baseline boosted protease inhibitor regimen , herein known as the boosted protease inhibitor group , for 48 weeks. Randomisation was stratified by use of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or abacavir at screening. The primary endpoint was the proportion of participants with plasma HIV-1 RNA of 50 copies per mL or higher at week 48 ( by US Food and Drug Administration snapshot algorithm) , with a prespecified non-inferiority margin of 4 %. Efficacy and safety analyses included all participants who received at least one dose of study drug. This study is ongoing but not actively recruiting patients and is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov , number NCT02603107. Between Dec 2 , 2015 , and July 15 , 2016 , 578 participants were randomly assigned and 577 were treated ( 290 in the bictegravir group and 287 in the boosted protease inhibitor group). At week 48 , five participants ( 2 %) in the bictegravir group and five ( 2 %) in the boosted protease inhibitor group had plasma HIV-1 RNA of 50 copies per mL or higher ( difference 0 路 0 % , 95 路 002 % CI -2 路 5 to 2 路 5) , thus switching to the bictegravir regimen was non-inferior to continued boosted protease inhibitor therapy. The overall incidence and severity of adverse events was similar between groups , although headache<symptom> occurred more frequently in the bictegravir group than in the boosted protease inhibitor group. 233 ( 80 %) participants in the bictegravir group and 226 ( 79 %) in the boosted protease inhibitor group had an adverse event. Only two ( 1 %) participants in the bictegravir group and one ( < 1 %) in the boosted protease inhibitor group discontinued treatment because of adverse events. 54 participants ( 19 %) in the bictegravir group had drug-related adverse events compared with six ( 2 %) in the protease inhibitor group. Fixed-dose bictegravir , emtricitabine , and tenofovir alafenamide might be a safe and efficacious alternative to continued boosted protease inhibitor therapy in adults with HIV-1 infection. Gilead Sciences.