 Communication and swallowing disorders are highly prevalent in people with Parkinson 's disease ( PD). Maintenance of functional communication and swallowing over time is challenging for the person with PD and their families and may lead to social isolation and reduced quality of life if not addressed. Speech and language therapists ( SLTs) face the conundrum of providing sustainable and flexible services to meet the changing needs of people with PD. Motor , cognitive and psychological issues associated with PD , medication regimens and dependency on others often impede attendance at a centre-based service. The access difficulties experienced by people with PD require a disruptive service approach to meet their needs. Technology-enabled management using information and telecommunications technologies to provide services at a distance has the potential to improve access , and enhance the quality of SLT services to people with PD. To report the status and scope of the evidence for the use of technology in the management of the communication and swallowing disorders associated with PD. Studies were retrieved from four major databases ( PubMed , CINAHL , EMBASE and Medline via Web of Science). Data relating to the types of studies , level of evidence , context , nature of the management undertaken , participant perspectives and the types of technologies involved were extracted for the review. A total of 17 studies were included in the review , 15 of which related to the management of communication and swallowing disorders in PD with two studies devoted to participant perspectives. The majority of the studies reported on the treatment of the speech disorder in PD using Lee Silverman Voice Treatment ( LSVT LOUD Research evidence supporting technology-enabled management of the communication and swallowing disorders in PD is limited and predominantly low in quality. The treatment of the speech disorder online is the most developed aspect of the technology-enabled management pathway. Future research needs to address technology-enabled management of cognitive-communication and swallowing disorders and the use of a more diverse range of technologies and management approaches to optimize SLT service delivery to people with PD.