 Actomyosin stress fibers ( SFs) support cell shape and migration by directing intracellular tension to the extracellular matrix ( ECM) via focal adhesions. Migrating cells exhibit three SF subtypes ( dorsal SFs , transverse arcs , and ventral SFs) , which differ in their origin , location , and ECM connectivity. While each subtype is hypothesized to play unique structural roles , this idea has not been directly tested at the single-SF level. Here , we interrogate the mechanical properties of single SFs of each subtype based on their retraction kinetics following laser incision. While each SF subtype bears distinct mechanical properties , these properties are highly interdependent , with incision of dorsal fibers producing centripetal recoil of adjacent transverse arcs and the retraction of incised transverse arcs being limited by attachment points to dorsal SFs. These observations hold whether cells are allowed to spread freely or confined to crossbow ECM patterns. Consistent with this interdependence , subtype-specific knockdown of dorsal SFs ( palladin) or transverse arcs ( mDia2) influences ventral SF retraction. These altered mechanics are partially phenocopied in cells cultured on ECM microlines that preclude assembly of dorsal SFs and transverse arcs. Our findings directly demonstrate that different SF subtypes play distinct roles in generating tension and form a mechanically interdependent network. Movie S1 Movie S1 A single dorsal SF in a U2OS cell is severed and tracked over 77 s at 1.24 s/frame. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 1. Movie S2 Movie S2 A single transverse arc in a U2OS cell is severed and tracked over 77 s. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 1. Movie S3 Movie S3 A single ventral SF in a U2OS cell is severed and tracked over 77 s. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 1. Movie S4 Movie S4 ( i) A dorsal SF inhibits the retraction of one of the severed transverse arc ends but not the other end , resulting in asymmetric retraction. ( ii) A severed transverse arc is not networked to dorsal SFs and is able to retract symmetrically. Inset shows a closeup of the ablated transverse arc. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 2. Movie S5 Movie S5 Dorsal SFs are externally tensed by networked transverse arcs. The ablated end of a dorsal SF that is connected to the transverse arc translocates upon severing. The other ablated end does not move. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 2. Movie S6 Movie S6 A transverse arc is first ablated at two points to release the tension on a dorsal SF. The dorsal SF connected to the transverse arc in between the ablation sites is ablated 55 s after the transverse arcs. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure S2. Movie S7 Movie S7 A dorsal SF and a transverse arc are sequentially ablated in a cell. Dorsal SF severing leads to translocation of a connected transverse arc. 55 s after the dorsal SF is severed , the connecting transverse arc is severed. SFs are visualized using Lifeact. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure S5. Movie S8 Movie S8 A ventral SF in a crossbow-patterned mDia2 KD/transverse arc-depleted , palladin KD/dorsal SF-depleted , NT , or naive cell is severed and tracked over 77 s. The shape of the retraction vs. time curve is a negative exponential. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 3. Movie S9 Movie S9 A ventral SF in a crossbow-patterned mDia2 KD/transverse arc-depleted , palladin KD/dorsal SF-depleted , NT , or naive cell is severed and tracked over 77s. The shape of the retraction vs. time curve has more linear characteristics and takes longer to plateau. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10μm. Movie corresponds to Figure S7. Movie S10 Movie S10 Time lapse of a NT U2OS RFP Lifeact ( magenta) GFP-paxillin ( green) cell spreading on a 2 μm-wide microline. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10μm. Movie corresponds to Figure S9. Movie S11 Movie S11 A ventral SF is severed in three different NT cells patterned on 2 μm microlines and tracked over 155 s. Three different categories of retractions are observed. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 6. Movie S12 Movie S12 A ventral SF in a 2 μm microline patterned mDia2 KD/transverse arc-depleted , palladin KD/dorsal SF-depleted , NT , or naive cell is severed and tracked over 155 s. A large proportion of all display atypical/non-exponential retractions. SFs are visualized using LifeAct. Scale bar: 10 μm. Movie corresponds to Figure 6.