 Corticobasal degeneration ( CBD) is a clinically heterogeneous tauopathy , which has overlapping clinicopathologic and genetic characteristics with progressive supranuclear palsy ( PSP). This study aimed to elucidate whether transactive response DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa ( TDP-43) pathology contributes to clinicopathologic heterogeneity of CBD. Paraffin-embedded sections of the midbrain , pons , subthalamic nucleus , and basal forebrain from 187 autopsy-confirmed CBD cases were screened with immunohistochemistry for phospho-TDP-43. In cases with TDP-43 pathology , additional brain regions ( i.e. , precentral , cingulate , and superior frontal gyri , hippocampus , medulla , and cerebellum) were immunostained. Hierarchical clustering analysis was performed based on the topographical distribution and severity of TDP-43 pathology , and clinicopathologic and genetic features were compared between the clusters. TDP-43 pathology was observed in 45 % of CBD cases , most frequently in midbrain tegmentum ( 80 % of TDP-43-positive cases) , followed by subthalamic nucleus ( 69 %). TDP-43-positive CBD was divided into TDP-limited ( 52 %) and TDP-severe ( 48 %) by hierarchical clustering analysis. TDP-severe patients were more likely to have been diagnosed clinically as PSP compared to TDP-limited and TDP-negative patients ( 80 vs 32 vs 30 % , P < 0.001). The presence of downward gaze palsy was the strongest factor for the antemortem diagnosis of PSP , and severe TDP-43 pathology in the midbrain tectum was strongly associated with downward gaze palsy. In addition , tau burden in the olivopontocerebellar system was significantly greater in TDP-positive than TDP-negative CBD. Genetic analyses revealed that MAPT H1/H1 genotype frequency was significantly lower in TDP-severe than in TDP-negative and TDP-limited CBD ( 65 vs 89 vs 91 % , P < 0.001). The homozygous minor allele frequencies in GRN rs5848 and TMEM106B rs3173615 were not significantly different between the three groups. In conclusion , the present study indicates that CBD with severe TDP-43 pathology is a distinct clinicopathologic subtype of CBD , characterized by PSP-like clinical presentations , severe tau pathology in the olivopontocerebellar system , and low frequency of MAPT H1 haplotype.