 Sardinia ( Italy) , the second largest island<disease> of the Mediterranean Sea , is a fire-prone land. Most Sardinian environments over time were shaped by fire , but some of them are too intrinsically fragile to withstand the currently increasing fire frequency. Calcareous pedoenvironments represent a significant part of Mediterranean areas , and require important efforts to prevent long-lasting degradation from fire. The aim of this study was to assess through an integrated multiple approach the impact of a single and highly severe wildland fire on limestone-derived soils. For this purpose , we selected two recently burned sites , Sant ` Antioco and Laconi. Soil was sampled from 80 points on a 100 × 100m grid- 40 in the burned area and 40 in unburned one- and analyzed for particle size fractions , pH , electrical conductivity , organic carbon , total N , total P , and water repellency ( WR). Fire behavior ( surface rate of spread ( ROS) , fireline intensity ( FLI) , flame length ( FL)) was simulated by BehavePlus 5.0.5 software. Comparisons between burned and unburned areas were done through ANOVA as well as deterministic and stochastic interpolation techniques; multiple correlations among parameters were evaluated by principal factor analysis ( PFA) and differences/similarities between areas by principal component analysis ( PCA). In both sites , fires were characterized by high severity and determined significant changes to some soil properties. The PFA confirmed the key ecological role played by fire in both sites , with the variability of a four-modeled components mainly explained by fire parameters , although the induced changes on soils were mainly site-specific. The PCA revealed the presence of two main `` driving factors '': slope ( in Sant ` Antioco) , which increased the magnitude of ROS and FLI; and soil properties ( in Laconi) , which mostly affected FL.. In both sites , such factors played a direct role in differentiating fire behavior and sites , while they played an indirect role in determining some effects on soil.