 The majority of ovarian cancer patients are diagnosed in late stages of the disease , in which the tumor cells have leaked into the peritoneum and are present as tumorspheres. These tumorspheres are rich in cancer stem-like cells ( CSCs) , which are resistant to therapy and are a major source of relapse. The purpose of this research was to identify a safe therapeutic approach that could eradicate the peritoneal CSC-rich tumorspheres and inhibit relapse. Highly metastatic ascitic cells ( OVASC-1) that are resistant to standard-of-care chemotherapy due to upregulation of MDR1 gene were obtained from a patient with ovarian carcinoma and recurrent disease. CSC-rich tumorspheres were generated , characterized , and treated with different chemotherapeutics. The most effective drug combination that could eradicate tumorspheres at nanomolar levels despite upregulation of MDR1 gene was identified. Luciferase-expressing OVASC-1 cells were implanted in the peritoneum of nude mice and treated with the identified drug combination. The progression of disease , response to therapy and recurrence were studied by quantitative imaging. Toxicity to abdominal tissues was studied by histopathology. Mice implanted with intraperitoneal ( IP) OVASC-1 xenografts showed limited response to combination therapy with cisplatin/paclitaxel at the maximum tolerated dose. Despite overexpression of MDR1 on OVASC-1 cells , mice treated with our combination IP low-dose MMAE and SN-38 chemotherapy showed complete response without relapse. No signs of toxicity to abdominal tissues were observed. While MMAE and SN-38 are not administered as free drugs due to their high potency and potential for systemic toxicity , our low-dose localized therapy approach effectively restricted the cytotoxic effects to the tumor cells in the peritoneum. Consequently , maximum efficacy with minimal adverse effects was achieved. These remarkable results with IP low-dose combination chemotherapy encourage investigation into its potential clinical application as either first-line therapy or in cases of acquired resistance to cisplatin and paclitaxel.