 The aim of this study is to evaluate the ability of microRNA-183 ( miR-183) to influence epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT) and cell proliferation , migration , invasion , and apoptosis in endometrial cancer ( EC) by targeting cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein 1 ( CPEB1). EC tissues with matched nonmalignant tissues were collected from 208 EC patients. Ishikawa and RL95-2 cells were selected for cell experiments in vitro and each kind of cells were grouped into blank , negative control ( NC) , miR-183 mimic , miR-183 inhibitor , CPEB1 overexpression , and miR-183 mimic + CPEB1 overexpression groups. Expressions of miR-183 , CPEB1 , E-cadherin , and Vimentin were determined by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR) and Western blotting. Cell viability , colony formation ability , migration , invasion , and apoptosis were assessed by MTT assay , clone formation assay , scratch test , Transwell assay , and flow cytometry. In vivo tumorigenesis of Ishikawa cells was evaluated by tumor formation in nude mice. The miR-183 expression was higher , but the CPEB1 expression was lower in EC tissues than in adjacent nonmalignant tissues. CPEB1 was confirmed as the target of miR-183 by dual-luciferase reporter assay. The miR-183 mimic group had increased cell viability , colony formation ability , cell invasion and migration , tumor volume and weight in nude mice , but decreased cell apoptosis when compared with the blank group. The expression of E-cadherin was down-regulate , but expression of Vimentin was up-regulate in the miR-183 mimic group in comparison with the blank group. In terms of a comparison between the blank group and CPEB1 overexpression group , the CPEB1 overexpression group had suppressed cell viability , colony formation ability , cell invasion and migration , tumor volume and weight , but increased cell apoptosis. The expression of E-cadherin was up-regulated , but the expression of Vimentin was down-regulated in the CPEB1 overexpression group in comparison with the blank group. The miR-183 mimic + CPEB1 overexpression group had higher miR-183 expression than the blank group. These findings indicate that miR-183 induces EMT , inhibits apoptosis , and promotes cell proliferation , migration , invasion , and in vivo tumorigenesis in EC by targeting CPEB1.