 Water recycling continues to expand across the United States , from areas that have access to advanced , potable-level treated reclaimed water , to those having access only to reclaimed water treated at conventional municipal wastewater treatment plants. This expansion makes it important to further characterize the microbial quality of these conventionally-treated water sources. Therefore , we used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to characterize total bacterial communities present in differentially-treated wastewater and reclaimed water ( n = 67 samples) from four U.S. wastewater treatment plants and one associated spray irrigation site conducting on-site ultraviolet treatment and open-air storage. The number of observed operational taxonomic units was significantly lower ( p < 0.01) in effluent , compared to influent , after conventional treatment. Effluent community structure was influenced more by treatment method than by influent community structure. The abundance of Legionella<pathogen> spp. increased as treatment progressed in one treatment plant that performed chlorination and in another that seasonally chlorinated. Overall , the alpha-diversity of bacterial communities in reclaimed water decreased ( p < 0.01) during wastewater treatment and spray irrigation site ultraviolet treatment ( p < 0.01) , but increased ( p < 0.01) after open-air storage at the spray irrigation site. The abundance of Legionella<pathogen> spp. was higher at the sprinkler system pumphouse at the spray irrigation site than in the influent from the treatment plant supplying the site. Legionella<pathogen> pneumophila<pathogen> was detected in conventionally treated effluent samples and in samples collected after ultraviolet treatment at the spray irrigation site , while Legionella<pathogen> feeleii<pathogen> persisted throughout on-site treatment at the spray irrigation site , and , along with Mycobacterium<pathogen><disease> gordonae<pathogen> , was also detected at the sprinkler system pumphouse at the spray irrigation site. These data could inform the development of future treatment technologies and reuse guidelines that address a broader assemblage of the bacterial community of reclaimed water , resulting in reuse practices that may be more protective of public health.