 Visceral artery chimneys have been employed as an adjunct to endovascular aneurysm<disease> repair ( EVAR) to treat short-neck infrarenal and juxtarenal aortic<disease> aneurysms<disease> for more than two decades. With the widespread introduction of fenestrated endovascular aneurysm<disease> repair by the Food and Drug Administration-approved Zenith Fenestrated endograft ( ZFEN; Cook Medical , Bloomington , Ind) to the United States in 2012 , clinicians gained the ability to apply the chimney technique to these custom devices for difficult anatomy. The purpose of this report was to demonstrate feasibility and to provide evidence on the performance of chimneys for the treatment of complex juxtarenal aneurysms<disease> that could not be adequately treated with ZFEN alone. A retrospective analysis was performed of a prospectively maintained institutional ZFEN database capturing 110 fenestrated endovascular aneurysm<disease> repairs from October 2012 to January 2018 to identify patients undergoing a concomitant visceral artery chimney. All patients with < 12 months of follow-up were excluded from further analysis. Demographic , anatomic , intraoperative , perioperative , and follow-up characteristics were tabulated and analyzed. Six patients met criteria and were included in this investigation. They were universally male with a mean age of 76.2 years at the time of ZFEN/chimney. Chimneys were placed in a total of six visceral arteries ( n = 1 per patient) consisting of three renal arteries , two celiac arteries , and one accessory renal artery. Mean estimated blood<symptom> loss<symptom> and operative time were 283 mL and 298 minutes , respectively. Technical success was achieved in all cases. Two small type IA `` gutter '' endoleaks were detected early; both spontaneously resolved on follow-up. We observed no instances of chimney migration , stenosis , or thrombosis perioperatively or on follow-up. Two reinterventions were performed in these six patients; these consisted of a repeated renal stent for ostial stenosis at a main body fenestration and a common femoral artery endarterectomy and patch angioplasty for an access-related common femoral artery occlusion. Use of ZFEN in conjunction with a singular chimney is safe , feasible , and durable in patients with difficult anatomy who do not meet instructions for use as demonstrated in this limited series.