 The density-related permanence test ( DRP) is used to classify young birds ( while in groups) according to their individual permanence in proximity to either a high or low density of conspecifics ( HD or LD , respectively). The birds ' performance in DRP was associated with underlying differences in the social responses of their individuals. Quails in homogeneous groups of LD residents responded with less compact groups and higher levels of agonistic interactions to the presence of an intruder , and showed higher levels of agonistic interactions among cagemates than the homogeneous groups of HD birds. This study deepen the characterization of DRP evaluating whether contrasting behavior during test is associated with birds ' stress responses to challenging situations during rearing. Plasma corticosterone responses were individually assessed after submitting DRP categorized birds to a brief ( 10 min) partial restraint ( mechanical stressor; experiment 1) , or after introducing them during 5 min as intruders in homogeneous groups of 6 unknown same category ( HD or LD) conspecifics ( social stressor; experiment 2). Experiment 1 showed that basal corticosterone levels were similar in all groups and the partial mechanical restraint induced an increase in plasma corticosterone concentration also in all groups. However , the increase induced by the stressor was higher in the LD birds than in their HD counterparts. In experiment 2 , compared to controls , social stressor showed no plasma corticosterone changes in the intruders that were introduced in an unfamiliar group of HD conspecifics. However , intruders ( both HD and LD) that were visiting the LD residents showed an increased corticosterone response compared to their control counterparts. Results suggest that categorization of birds in the DRP test could have relevance for selection programs oriented to obtain birds better suited to intensive rearing conditions that includes high density of animals and exposure to unavoidable stressors.