 Multidrug-resistant ( MDR) tuberculosis<pathogen><disease> ( TB) emerged shortly after introduction of rifamycins in the 1960s; isoniazid resistance had already emerged by the mid-1950s. Without these two drugs , tuberculosis<disease> is very difficult and costly to treat , with unacceptably high rates of treatment failure , death , loss to follow-up , and no known preventive treatment. Global attention first focused on MDR TB in the early 1990s when nosocomial outbreaks with high case fatality rates were reported in many countries. Prevalence data for MDR TB on a global scale first became available in 1997. In 2016 , about 4.1 % of estimated ~ 10.4 million new TB patients plus 19 % of ~ 1 million previously treated patients , that is ~ 600,000 people develop MDR TB or rifampicin resistant TB; 250,000 die annually. Ten years ago , < 5 % of them were diagnosed and enrolled on treatment , increasing to about 21.6 % in 2016 , leaving much room for improvement. Over that same period of time , momentum has been building to combat MDR TB , including advances in diagnostics , therapeutics , and care; decentralizing patient-centered care coupled with social support; growing improvements in prevention of transmission; increasing use of highly effective antiretroviral treatment; communications , advocacy , and social mobilization; leadership and updated policy guidance. Taking into account long-term epidemiological trends , all of these factors coupled with funding from the Global Fund and other major donors , suggest we may be on the verge of accelerating declines in MDR TB morbidity and mortality. Extreme poverty , which allows tuberculosis<disease> to flourish , has actually decreased by about one billion people over the past 25 years. What is needed now is political will on the part of national governments to apply these advances diligently and further reductions in poverty , pushing epidemiological trends past the inflection point to the downward slope. All these can be accelerated with increased support for science leading to better diagnosis , treatment and an effective vaccine to sustain and accelerate the meager declines reported thus far.