 Protein lysine ubiquitination is a dynamic reversible post-translational modification that plays key roles in modulating different cellular processes. Porcine reproductive and respiratory<pathogen><disease> syndrome<pathogen><disease><symptom> virus ( PRRSV) is a notorious pathogen , causing tremendous economic losses for the global swine industry. The possible involvement of ubiquitination in PRRSV infection is unclear. So anti-ubiquitination-based enrichment and LC-MS were performed to investigate the global ubiquitination events triggered by PRRSV infection in pulmonary alveolar macrophages. We totally identified 4044 lysine ubiquitination sites on 1580 cellular proteins , of which 983 sites on 717 proteins were significantly altered at 36 h postinfection. A systematic , intensive bioinformatic analysis of the ubiquitome data suggested that PRRSV suppresses the host immune responses by manipulating the ubiquitination of important adaptors and effectors , including TRAF6 , JAK1 , STAT1 , and ISGs. Ubiquitination was also observed on 15 PRRSV proteins , including important virus proteases and structural proteins that function in virus infectivity and neutralizing antibody elicitation. The efficient replication of PRRSV requires an intact ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our study is the first to analyze the global ubiquitination events in pulmonary alveolar macrophages during PRRSV infection. It provides insight into the molecular mechanisms of PRRSV pathogenesis , promoting the development of antiviral drugs. PRRSV is a notorious pathogen which has been resulting in huge economic losses in the swine industry since the first outbreak. Therefore , more in-depth knowledge of the PRRSV immunoregulatory mechanisms and valid control methods to combat the virus are urgently needed. Ubiquitination is an important post-translational modification regulating various cellular processes. However , information about the possible involvement of ubiquitination responses to PRRSV infection is limited. In this study , a quantitative proteomic approach was first used to analyze ubiquitination level alteration in PRRSV-infected PAMs. We demonstrate that PRRSV can suppresses the host immune responses by manipulating the ubiquitination of important effectors that include TRAF6 , JAK1 , STAT1 , and ISGs. Furthermore , 15 PRRSV proteins undergo ubiquitination and efficient replication of PRRSV requires an intact ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our study will significantly expand our knowledge about the molecular mechanisms of PRRSV pathogenesis and provides novel insights into the development of antiviral drugs.