 Recent surgical education literature has focused on means of improving structured educational experience in residency , particularly in the context of limited working hours. In addition , prior studies have illustrated a void in training regarding leadership. Learning teams have been adopted in several medical schools with an aim to improve the educational experience. We instituted resident learning teams with a goal of improving resident education. In the 2015 to 2016 academic year , we implemented a team-based learning ( TBL) system of 5 teams each led by 1 to 2 chief residents and containing an approximately equal number of residents from postgraduate year ( PGY) 1-4. The learning teams competed for points based on weekly quizzes , preparation of materials for resident teaching , and American Board of Surgery In-Training Exam ( ABSITE) scores. After a full year of TBL , residents were surveyed on their view of the learning teams with respect to the educational experience in the residency with a series of Likert-type questions. Median ABSITE scores of categorical interns were compared between the 3 years after the implementation of the learning teams and the 4 years prior with a Mann-Whitney U test. Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center , Boston , MA; Tertiary Care Center. All residents from 2011 to 2018. After TBL implementation , median ABSITE percentile scores of PGY2-5 residents increased ( 35-44 , p = 0.04). PGY1 scores were not significantly changed. After TBL implementation , a majority of residents agreed or strongly agreed that they studied more consistently , felt more prepared for the ABSITE , were more prepared for resident school , learned more in resident school , and that the learning teams improved the educational experience of the residency. Learning teams subjectively improved the educational experience in our residency and engaged residents in studying and participating. In addition , PGY2-5 ABSITE scores were significantly improved. Learning teams are a program that can be easily adopted by surgical residencies elsewhere.