 Prenatal alcohol exposure results in cognitive , behavioral , and neurological deficits in offspring. There is an urgent need for safe and effective treatments to overcome these effects. Maternal choline supplementation has been identified as a potential intervention. Our objective was to review preclinical and clinical studies using choline supplementation in known cases of fetal alcohol exposure to determine its effectiveness in ameliorating deficits in offspring. A systematic search of 6 electronic databases was conducted and studies selected by reviewing titles/abstracts against specific inclusion/exclusion criteria. Study characteristics , population demographics , alcohol exposure , and intervention methods were tabulated , and quality of reporting was assessed. Data on cognitive , behavioral , and neurological outcomes were extracted and tabulated. Quantitative analysis was performed to determine treatment effects for individual study outcomes. A total of 189 studies were retrieved following duplicate removal. Of these , 22 studies ( 2 randomized controlled trials , 2 prospective cohort studies , and 18 preclinical studies) met the full inclusion/exclusion criteria. Choline interventions were administered at different times relative to alcohol exposure , impacting on their success to prevent deficits for specific outcomes. Only 1 clinical study showed significant improvements in information processing in 6-month-old infants from mothers treated with choline during pregnancy. Preclinical studies showed significant amelioration of deficits due to prenatal alcohol exposure across a wide variety of outcomes , including epigenetic/molecular changes , gross motor , memory , and executive function. This review suggests that choline supplementation has the potential to ameliorate specific behavioral , neurological , and cognitive deficits in offspring caused by fetal alcohol exposure , at least in preclinical studies. As only 1 clinical study has shown benefit , we recommend more clinical trials be undertaken to assess the effectiveness of choline in preventing deficits across a wider range of cognitive domains in children.