 To evaluate the efficacy of prostaglandin antagonists on blood-retinal barrier breakdown induced by anterior segment intraocular simulated surgery. Rats were randomly assigned to a negative control group , model group , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment group , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment group , corticosteroid prophylactic treatment group , and corticosteroid treatment group. Four hours and 48h after modeling , the concentrations of PGE1 , PGE2 , and PGF2 α in the aqueous humor and vitreous body of the rat model were visualized using ELISA. The integrity of the blood-retinal barrier was quantitatively measured using Evan 's blue as a tracer. Four hours after modeling , the concentrations of PGE1 , PGE2 , and PGF2α in the aqueous humor and vitreous body in the negative control group and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment group were significantly lower than those in the model group. The concentrations of PGE1 , PGE2 , and PGF2α in the aqueous humor and vitreous body in the corticosteroid prophylactic treatment group were higher than those in the negative control group and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment group. Forty-eight hours after modeling , the concentrations of PGE1 , PGE2 , and PGF2α in the aqueous humor and vitreous body in the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment group , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment group , corticosteroid prophylactic treatment group , and corticosteroid treatment group were lower than those in the model group , but higher than those in the negative group. Retinal Evan 's blue leakage in the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment group was higher than that in the negative control group , and lower than those in the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment group , corticosteroid prophylactic treatment group , corticosteroid treatment group , and model group. Retinal Evan 's blue leakage in the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment group , corticosteroid prophylactic treatment group , and corticosteroid treatment group were lower than those in the model group. This study confirms that prostaglandin antagonists can relieve blood-retinal barrier breakdown in a rat model and that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs prophylactic treatment can achieve better efficacy.