 The objectives of the current study were: ( 1) to perform a systematic review of the existing scientific literature on appearance and any subsequently related disorders and ( 2) to research in the literature the correlation between the role of appearance and patient 's disease. A systematic review protocol was developed a priori in accordance with the Preferred Reporting for Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses-Protocols ( PRISMA-P) guidance. A multistep search of the PubMed , MEDLINE , PreMEDLINE , Embase , Ebase , CINAHL , PsychINFO and Cochrane databases was performed to identify studies on patient satisfaction , quality of life , and body image. Our search generated a total of 347 articles. We performed a systematic review of the 18 studies , which had sufficient data and met all inclusion criteria. All studies identified from the literature review were assessed to determine the utilization of validated patient satisfaction questionnaires. The questionnaires were analyzed by reviewers to assess adherence to the rules of the US Food and Drug Administration and the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Medical Outcomes Trust. We identified 27 individual questionnaires. We summarized development and validation characteristics and content of the 27 validated measures used in the studies. This is the first systematic review to identify and critically appraise patient-reported outcome measures for appearance and body image using internationally accepted criteria. DAS59 was deemed to have adequate levels of methodological and psychometric evidence. We also introduced the concept of Appearance-Pain which consists of the recomposed systematic view of the experimental indicators of suffering , linked to one of the dimensions of appearance. This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings , please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266.