 The CRISPR/Cas system could provide an efficient and reliable means of editing the human genome and has the potential to revolutionise modern medicine; however , rapid developments are raising complex ethical issues. There has been significant scientific debate regarding the acceptability of some applications of CRISPR/Cas , with leaders in the field highlighting the need for the lay public 's views to shape expert discussion. As such , we sought to determine the factors that influence public opinion on gene editing. We created a 17-item online survey translated into 11 languages and advertised worldwide. Topic modelling was used to analyse textual responses to determine what factors influenced respondents ' opinions towards human somatic or embryonic gene editing , and how this varied between respondents with differing attitudes and demographic backgrounds. A total of 3,988 free text responses were analysed. Respondents had a mean age of 32 ( 11-90) and 37 % were female. The most prevalent topics cited were ` Future Generations ' , ` Research ' , ` Human Editing ' , ` Children ' , and ` Health '. Respondents who disagreed with gene editing for health-related purposes were more likely to cite the topic ` Better Understanding ' than those who agreed to both somatic and embryonic gene editing. Respondents from ` Western ' backgrounds more frequently discussed ` Future Generations ' , compared to participants from ` Eastern<disease> ' countries. Religious respondents did not cite the topic ` Religious Beliefs ' more frequently than non-religious respondents , while Christian respondents were more likely to cite the topic ` Future Generations '. Our results suggest that public resistance to human somatic or embryonic gene editing does not stem from an inherent mistrust of genome modification , but rather a desire for greater understanding. Furthermore , we demonstrate that factors influencing public opinion vary greatly amongst demographic groups. It is crucial that the determinants of public attitudes towards CRISPR/Cas are well understood so that the technology does not suffer the negative public sentiment seen with previous genetic biotechnologies.