 The Anterior Cruciate Ligament-Specialized Post-Operative Return to Sports ( ACL-SPORTS) randomized controlled trial was designed to address deficits in functional and patient-reported outcomes. The trial examined the effects of a secondary ACL prevention program that included progressive strengthening , agility training , plyometrics ( SAP) , and other components of current primary prevention protocols , with perturbation training ( SAP + PERT group) and without PERT ( SAP group). A secondary purpose of this study was to examine whether study outcomes differed between men and women. ( 1) Athletes in both the SAP and SAP + PERT groups will have improved knee function and patient-reported outcome measures from pre- to posttraining , ( 2) the SAP + PERT group would have higher outcome scores than the SAP group , and ( 3) outcomes will differ by sex. Randomized controlled trial ( NCT01773317). Level 2. A total of 79 athletes ( 39 women) were randomized into the SAP and SAP + PERT groups. All athletes had undergone primary ACL reconstruction and achieved 80 % quadriceps strength limb symmetry ( QI) , full range of motion , had minimal effusion<symptom> , and had no pain. Additionally , all had begun running again. Prior to and after the training program , athletes ' QI , hopping , and patient-reported outcomes were assessed. Repeated-measures analyses of variance were used to determine whether there were differences between groups. Subsequently , the SAP and SAP + PERT groups were collapsed to analyze differences between sexes. There were significant increases for all variables , with the exception of QI. There were no differences between the SAP and SAP + PERT groups. Both men and women made significant improvements in all knee function and patient-reported outcome measures except QI. Men made significant improvements in QI , whereas women did not. The common elements of the training program that all athletes received ( 10 sessions of progressive strengthening , agility training , plyometrics , and secondary prevention) may be a beneficial addition to the return-to-sport phase of ACL reconstruction rehabilitation. The results suggest that women may require further quadriceps strengthening to maintain and improve QI , an important focus given the relationship between QI and risk for reinjury. During the return-to-sport phase of ACL reconstruction rehabilitation , clinicians tend to shift their focus away from strengthening toward more advanced sports-related tasks. These results indicate that women in particular need continued focus on quadriceps strengthening.