 Selenium , an essential trace element , has been investigated as a potential cancer prevention agent. However , several studies have indicated that selenium supplementation may be associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes ( T2D) , although an equivocal relation of this nature requires confirmation. We examined the association between baseline plasma concentrations of selenium and the prevalence of T2D , as well as whether participant characteristics or intake of other antioxidant nutrients modified this relation. We conducted cross-sectional analyses of 1727 participants from the Selenium Trial , a randomized clinical trial of selenium supplementation for colorectal adenoma chemoprevention that had data for baseline selenium plasma concentrations , T2D status , and dietary intake. Logistic regression modeling was used to evaluate the associations between plasma selenium concentrations and prevalent T2D , adjusting for confounding factors. Heterogeneity of effect by participant characteristics was evaluated utilizing likelihood-ratio tests. Mean ± SD plasma selenium concentrations for those with T2D compared with those without T2D were 143.6 ± 28.9 and 138.7 ± 27.2 ng/mL , respectively. After adjustment for confounding , higher plasma selenium concentrations were associated with a higher prevalence of T2D , with ORs ( 95 % CIs) of 1.25 ( 0.80 , 1.95) and 1.77 ( 1.16 , 2.71) for the second and third tertiles of plasma selenium , respectively , compared with the lowest tertile ( P-trend = 0.007). No significant effect modification was observed for age , sex , body mass index , smoking , or ethnicity. Increased odds of T2D were seen among those who were in the highest tertile of plasma selenium and the highest category of intake of β-cryptoxanthin ( P-trend = 0.03) and lycopene ( P-trend = 0.008); however , interaction terms were not significant. These findings show that higher plasma concentrations of selenium were significantly associated with prevalent T2D among participants in a selenium supplementation trial. Future work is needed to elucidate whether there are individual characteristics , such as blood concentrations of other antioxidants , which may influence this relation.