 Viral-induced gene silencing of selected biosynthetic genes decreased overall carotenoid accumulation in California poppy. Regulation of carotenogenesis was linked with pigment sequestration , not changes in biosynthetic gene expression. Genes of carotenogenesis are well described , but understanding how they affect carotenoid accumulation has proven difficult because of plant lethality when the pigments are lacking. Here , we used a Tobacco Rattle Virus-based virus-induced-gene-silencing ( VIGS) approach in California poppy ( Eschscholzia californica) to investigate how silencing of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway genes affects carotenoid metabolite accumulation and RNA transcript abundance of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway genes. VIGS of upstream ( PDS and ZDS) and downstream ( βOH and ZEP) genes reduced transcript abundance of the targeted genes in the poppy petals while having no effect on abundance of the other carotenogenesis genes. Silencing of PDS , ZDS , βOH and ZEP genes reduced total pigment concentration by 75-90 % and altered petal colour. HPLC and LC-MS measurements suggested that petal colour changes were caused by substantially altered pigment profiles and quantity. Carotenoid metabolites were different to those normally detected in wild-type petals accumulated but overall carotenoid concentration was less , suggesting the chemical form of carotenoid was important for whether it could be stored at high amounts. In poppy petals , eschscholtzxanthin and retro-carotene-triol were the predominant carotenoids , present mainly as esters. Specific esterification enzymes for specific carotenoids and/or fatty acids appear key for enabling petal carotenoids to accumulate to high amounts. Our findings argue against a direct role for carotenoid metabolites regulating carotenogenesis genes in the petals of California poppy as transcript abundance of carotenogenesis genes studied was unchanged , while the petal carotenoid metabolite profile changed substantially.