 Background Little exists currently in research about the mechanisms of resistance of ALK inhibitors in inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma<disease>. It is known , however , that ALK gene rearrangements are common in inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors , similar to non-small cell lung cancer. In roughly 50 % of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors , gene rearrangement has been found to occur on chromosome 2 at band 2p23. In non-small cell lung cancer , it has been shown that about a third of patients who progress on the first generation ALK inhibitor , crizotinib develops mutations in the ALK kinase domain. The remaining two-thirds of patients tend to develop amplification of ALK or activation of alternative signaling pathways. Chromoplexy has also been described as a mechanism of resistance , where multiple closed chain rearrangements cause loss-of-function of tumor suppressor genes and gain-in-function of oncogenic fusions. Partner genes that have been identified in IMTs are tropomyosin 3 ( TPM3) , tropomyosin 4 ( TPM4) , clathrin heavy chain ( CLTC) , Ran-binding protein 2 ( RANBP2) , cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase ( CARS) , 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase/IMP cyclohydrolase ( ATIC) , and SEC31L1. All are active promoters for the fusion gene , in response to NPM binding. Several inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor case reports indicated that fusion of ALK and RANBP2 led to a more aggressive clinical course. Although the majority of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor case reports have utilized first and second generation ALK inhibitors , all generations of ALK inhibitors have demonstrated some ability to impair disease progression and extend life expectancy. However , at some point in the course of therapy with each generation of ALK inhibitor , resistance ultimately developed. In order to better understand the pharmacology and resistance patterns behind three generations of ALK inhibitors , we sought to examine a patient with metastatic anaplastic lymphoma kinase-1-rearranged inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma<disease> to the brain. We also explored the similarities and differences of this clinical case to other inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma<disease> case reports involving the use of ALK inhibitors. Case report A rare case of pulmonary IMS with ALK-1 gene rearrangement and multiple brain metastases responded to three generations of ALK inhibitors. However , similar to other case reports , due to the development of resistance and recurrence , the patient eventually succumbed to the disease. Conclusions ALK inhibitors are beneficial in the temporary prevention of progression of disease in patients with inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors. In this case , due to the inability to reveal the fusion partner in this patient via DNA sequencing , it is unknown exactly if that partner was RANBP2 or another ALK partner gene. Brain biopsy tissue was also unobtainable during sequence of ALK due to risk versus benefit , which would have provided insight as which type of ALK resistance mutations the patient was developing. It is likely that this patient had some form of chromoplexy occurring.