 Definitions of health literacy have tended to focus on the abilities of patients and communities , rather than on the ability of the health system and its services to respond to patients ' different levels of health literacy. However , health literacy is increasingly being recognised as part of a dynamic , two-way relationship , affected by both organisational factors ( e.g. tailoring of communication and care to patients ' needs) and community factors ( e.g. individuals ' ability to perceive and seek care). Developing a more comprehensive understanding of health literacy is an important step towards improving health literacy. Most health literacy interventions described in the literature tend to be small and focused on either organisational or community aspects of health literacy rather than addressing both sides. However , some good examples can be found in Local Health Districts and Primary Health Networks in New South Wales ( NSW) , Australia , of health literacy interventions that are multidimensional and address both organisational and community health literacy. Although progress is being made , gaps in knowledge remain. A deeper understanding of the intersection between health literacy , culture and language is needed , as well as identification of effective communication strategies after patient comprehension has been assessed using strategies such as ` teach-back '. The teach-back method can be used to check patient understanding , but it is not a communication strategy in itself. If teach-back shows that the patient has not understood , clinicians can employ communication strategies such as limiting discussion to two or three points , or using visual aids. If these are not effective , extended family networks and the use of patient navigators may be required. These health literacy interventions address both organisational and community aspects. More work is needed to evaluate such interventions , in particular their impact on health literacy and appropriate and timely access to healthcare.