 Tumor necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF)- α plays a crucial role in rheumatoid arthritis<disease><symptom> ( RA)- related bone loss disease. The main mechanism of action of RA induced bone loss is the significant inhibitory effect of TNF-α on osteoblast differentiation. TNF-α inhibits osteoblast differentiation mainly by activating nuclear factor ( NF)- κB signaling pathway. Owing to the crucial role of TNF-α and NF-κB in the inhibition of osteoblast differentiation , they are considered as targets for the development of therapeutic drugs. In the present study , we evaluated the NF-κB inhibitor Boswellic acid ( BA) and its derivatives in the regulation of osteoblast differentiation and the molecular mechanism. Based on the cell model of TNF-α induced inhibition of osteoblast differentiation of MC3T3-E1 , the regulatory role of BAs was studied. The result of MTT assay indicated that bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP) -2 , TNF-α , or acetyl-11-keto-β-BA ( AKBA) impact no significant effect for cell viability of MC3T3-E1. The results of alkaline phosphatase ( ALP activity assay and real-time polymerase chain reaction indicated that AKBA blocked TNF-α-induced inhibition of the expression of osteoblast markers , suggesting that AKBA rescued osteoblast differentiation from TNF-α-induced inhibition. Additionally , AKBA stimulated the BMP-2-induced expression of osteoblast markers , suggesting that AKBA promotes osteoblast differentiation directly. The results of western blotting and luciferase assay indicated that N-κB signaling was activated by TNF-α. The overexpression of NF-κB component p65 in MC3T3-E1 was found to attenuate the positive effect of AKBA in osteoblast differentiation , suggesting that AKBA potentiates osteoblast differentiation by inhibiting NF-κB signaling. Collectively , AKBA promotes osteoblast differentiation by inhibiting TNF-α and NF-κB. Our study revealed a new discovery of AKBA in regulating osteoblast differentiation , and demonstrated that AKBA may be a potential anabolic agent in the treatment of RA-derived bone loss disease.