 Visceral leishmaniasis<disease> ( VL) , a deadly parasitic<disease> disease<disease> , is a major public health concern globally. Countries affected by VL have signed the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases and committed to eliminate VL as a public health problem by 2020. To achieve and sustain VL elimination , it will become progressively important not to miss any remaining cases in the community who can maintain transmission. This requires accurate identification of symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers using highly sensitive diagnostic tools at the primary health service setting. The rK39 rapid diagnostic test ( RDT) is the most widely used tool and with its good sensitivity and specificity is the first choice for decentralized diagnosis of VL in endemic areas. However , this test can not discriminate between current , subclinical , or past infections and is useless for diagnosis of relapses and as a prognostic ( cure) test. Importantly , as the goal of elimination of VL as a public health problem is approaching , the number of people susceptible to infection will increase. Therefore , correct diagnosis using a highly sensitive diagnostic test is crucial for applying appropriate treatment and management of cases. Recent advances in molecular techniques have improved Leishmania<pathogen> detection and quantification , and therefore this technology has become increasingly relevant due to its possible application in a variety of clinical sample types. Most importantly , given current problems in identifying asymptomatic individuals because of poor correlation between the main methods of detection , molecular tests are valuable for VL elimination programs , especially to monitor changes in burden of infection in specific communities. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the available VL diagnostics and discusses the usefulness of molecular methods in the diagnosis , quantification , and species differentiation as well as their clinical applications.