 Clinical studies have shown a positive correlation between novelty-seeking behavior and the susceptibility to consume drugs of abuse. Although several animal studies have demonstrated this correlation with psychostimulants or morphine , studies with alcohol have shown conflicting results. The aim of this work was to investigate alcohol-induced motor effects in Wistar rats with different responses to novelty. Animals were classified as Low- ( LR) or High-Responders ( HR) to novelty , depending on their horizontal activity in an automated open field. Motor activity was recorded in naïve , saline , and alcohol-administered rats at different doses ( 0.1 , 0.25 , 0.5 , 1.0 , or 2.5 g/kg). Horizontal movements , rearings , and stereotyped behaviors were evaluated. After the behavioral test , animals were sacrificed and blood alcohol concentrations ( BACs) were measured. Low ( 0.1 and 0.25 g/kg) and high ( 2.5 g/kg) alcohol doses decreased horizontal movements in LR animals , whereas 1.0 g/kg increased this parameter in HR rats. Rearings were increased by alcohol 1.0 g/kg in LR animals. In HR rats , alcohol doses of 0.5 and 1.0 g/kg also increased this parameter. Stereotyped behaviors were decreased by an alcohol dose of 2.5 g/kg in LR animals , but were increased by an intermediate dose ( 1.0 g/kg) in HR rats. Differences in horizontal movements and rearings were found between LR and HR animals at certain ethanol doses. Horizontal movements ( 0.25 g/kg) and rearings ( 0.5 g/kg) were lower in LR than HR rats; however , rearings were lower in HR than LR rats at 1.0 g/kg. BACs were similar between LR and HR rats at all ethanol doses. These findings suggest that HR rats are more responsive to the stimulant effects of intermediate alcohol doses , whereas LR animals are sensitive to low/high doses of the drug. Sensitivity to alcohol motor effects may substantially depend on the initial animal 's response to a novel environment. The stimulant effects of alcohol may constitute important behavioral traits significantly associated with the rewarding properties of the drug.