 Meals , particularly carbohydrate intake , determine diurnal blood glucose ( BG) excursions. However , the effect of meals with variable carbohydrate content on diurnal BG excursions remains poorly understood , despite routine consumption of meals that vary daily. The aim of this study was to verify our hypothesis that glycemic response is elevated when a meal with a higher carbohydrate content follows a meal with a lower carbohydrate content. This was a secondary analysis of a study whose primary endpoint was energy metabolism ( e.g. , energy expenditure and substrate oxidation). This crossover study was designed to test BG responses to 3 types of meals with different macronutrient contents ( regular meals ( R) , meals with a high-carbohydrate breakfast ( CB) , and meals with a high-fat breakfast ( FB)) using a continuous glucose monitoring system. The R test included 3 meals/d with the same macronutrient composition; the CB test , a high-carbohydrate meal at breakfast , a high-fat meal at lunch , and a high-carbohydrate meal at dinner; and the FB test , a high-fat meal at breakfast , a high-carbohydrate meal at lunch , and a high-carbohydrate meal at dinner. Each test had similar daily macronutrient compositions , except CB and FB had larger variations in carbohydrate content than R. Fourteen healthy young men were tested in random order and underwent whole-body indirect calorimetry. Daily peak BG concentrations were higher for the CB ( mean ± SD: 143.9 ± 25.3 mg/dL) and FB ( 140.2 ± 24.8 mg/dL) conditions than for the R condition ( 127.5 ± 15.7 mg/dL). Postprandial BG peaks after a high-carbohydrate meal were ∼ 20 mg/dL higher when a previous meal was relatively high-fat than when not high-fat ( P < 0.05 for all). A multiple regression analysis indicated that the postprandial glycemic response was negatively associated with the preprandial respiratory quotient. Our findings indicate that switching from high-fat to high-carbohydrate meals contributes to larger postprandial BG excursions , along with alterations in prioritization of carbohydrate utilization. This study was registered at the UMIN Clinical Trials Registry as UMIN000028895.