 To generate estimates of the direct costs of mounting simultaneous emergency preparedness and response activities to respond to 3 major public health events. A cost analysis was performed from the perspective of the public health department using real-time activity diaries and retrospective time and activity self-reporting , wage and fringe benefit data , and financial records to track costs. Maricopa County Department of Public Health ( MCDPH) in Arizona. The nation 's third largest local public health jurisdiction , MCDPH is the only local health agency serving Maricopa 's more than 4 000 000 residents. Responses analyzed included activities related to a measles<pathogen> outbreak with 2 confirmed cases , enhanced surveillance activities surrounding Super Bowl XLIX , and ongoing Ebola<disease> monitoring , all between January 22 , 2015 , and March 4 , 2015. Time data were sought from all MCDPH staff who participated in activities related to any of the 3 relevant responses. In addition , time data were sought from partners at the state health department and a community hospital involved in response activities. Time estimates were received from 128 individuals ( response rate 88 %). Time and cost to MCDPH for each response and overall. Total MCDPH costs for measles<pathogen>- , Super Bowl- , and Ebola-related activities from January 22 , 2015 , through March 4 , 2015 , were $ 224 484 ( > 5800 hours). The majority was for personnel ( $ 203 743) and the costliest response was measles<pathogen> ( $ 122 626 in personnel costs). In addition , partners reported working more than 700 hours for these 3 responses during this period. Funding for public health departments remains limited , yet public health responses can be cost- and time-intensive. To effectively plan for future public health responses , it may be necessary to share experiences and financial lessons learned from similar public health responses. External partnerships represent a key contribution for responses such as those examined. It can be expensive for local public health departments to mount effective responses , especially when multiple responses occur simultaneously.