 Patients suffering from non-convulsive seizures<symptom> experience delays in diagnosis and treatment due to limitations in acquiring and interpreting electroencephalography ( EEG) data. The Ceribell EEG System offers rapid EEG acquisition and conversion of EEG signals to sound ( sonification) using a proprietary algorithm. This study was designed to test the performance of this EEG system in an intensive care unit ( ICU) setting and measure its impact on clinician treatment decision. Encephalopathic ICU patients at Stanford University Hospital were enrolled if clinical suspicion for seizures<symptom> warranted EEG monitoring. Treating physicians rated suspicion for seizure<symptom> and decided if the patient needed antiepileptic drug ( AED) treatment at the time of bedside evaluation. After listening to 30 s of EEG from each hemisphere in each patient , they reevaluated their suspicion for seizure<symptom> and decision for additional treatment. The EEG waveforms recorded with Ceribell EEG were subsequently analyzed by three blinded epileptologists to assess the presence or absence of seizures<symptom> within and outside the sonification window. Study outcomes were EEG set up time , ease of use of the device , change in clinician seizure<symptom> suspicion , and change in decision to treat with AED before and after sonification. Thirty-five cases of EEG sonification were performed. Mean EEG setup time was 6 ± 3 min , and time to obtain sonified EEG was significantly faster than conventional EEG ( p < 0.001). One patient had non-convulsive seizure<symptom> during sonification and another had rhythmic activity that was followed by seizure<symptom> shortly after sonification. Change in treatment decision after sonification occurred in approximately 40 % of patients and resulted in a significant net reduction in unnecessary additional treatments ( p = 0.01). Ceribell EEG System was consistently rated easy to use. The Ceribell EEG System enabled rapid acquisition of EEG in patients at risk for non-convulsive seizures<symptom> and aided clinicians in their evaluation of encephalopathic ICU patients. The ease of use and speed of EEG acquisition and interpretation by EEG-untrained individuals has the potential to improve emergent clinical decision making by quickly detecting non-convulsive seizures<symptom> in the ICU.