 The shipping industry is critical to international commerce; however , contemporary shipping practices involve uptake and discharge of ballast water , which introduces the potential for transfer of nonindigenous , invasive species among geographically distinct habitats. To counteract this hazard , regulations for ballast water management have been implemented by the International Maritime Organization ( IMO) and by regulatory agencies such as the United States Coast Guard ( USCG). IMO and USCG discharge standards are numerically identical , but involve different definitions of treatment end points , which are based on fundamentally different biological assays for quantification of ballast water treatment effectiveness. Available assays for quantification of the responses of organisms in the 10-50 μm size range include vital stains based on fluorescein diacetate ( FDA) , sometimes used in combination with 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate ( CMFDA) , observations of motility , and the most probable number dilution culture method ( MPN). The mechanisms and implications of these assays are discussed relative to the Type Approval process , which quantitatively evaluates compliance with ballast water discharge standards ( BWDSs) under controlled shipboard and land-based tests. For antimicrobial processes that accomplish treatment by preventing subsequent replication of the target species , the FDA/CMFDA and MPN methods can yield dramatically different results. An important example of a treatment process that is affected by the choice of assay is ultraviolet ( UV) irradiation. Results of laboratory and field experiments have demonstrated UV-based technologies to be effective for accomplishing the objectives of ballast water treatment ( inactivation of cellular reproduction) , when the MPN assay is used as the basis for evaluation. The FDA , CMFDA , motility , and MPN methods are subject to well recognized sources of error; however , the MPN method is based on a response that is consistent with the objectives of ballast water management as well as the mechanism of action of UV-based inactivation. Complementary assays are available for use in compliance testing; however , the development of relevant indicative tests remains as a research priority. Historical lessons learned from applications of vital stains ( and other indirect methods) for quantification of microbial responses to UV irradiation in other settings also support the use of assays that provide a direct measure of growth and reproduction , such as MPN. Collectively , these observations point to the use of MPN assays as the standard for type testing , especially when UV-based treatment is employed.