 Facultative bacterial endosymbionts can protect their aphid hosts from natural enemies such as hymenopteran parasitoids. As such , they have the capability to modulate interactions between aphids , parasitoids and hyperparasitoids. However , the magnitude of these effects in natural aphid populations and their associated parasitoid communities is currently unknown. Moreover , environmental factors such as plant fertilization and landscape complexity are known to affect aphid-parasitoid interactions but it remains unclear how such environmental factors affect the interplay between aphids , parasitoids and endosymbionts. Here , we tested whether facultative endosymbionts confer protection to parasitoids in natural populations of the English grain aphid , Sitobion avenae<pathogen> , and if this is affected by plant fertilization and landscape complexity. Furthermore , we examined whether the effects of facultative endosymbionts can cascade up to the hyperparasitoid level and increase primary-hyperparasitoid food web specialization. Living aphids and mummies were collected in fertilized and unfertilized plots within 13 wheat fields in Central Germany. We assessed the occurrence of primary parasitoid , hyperparasitoid and endosymbiont species in aphids and mummies using a newly established molecular approach. Facultative endosymbiont infection rates were high across fields ( ~ 80 %) , independent of whether aphids were parasitized or unparasitized. Aphid mummies exhibited a significantly lower share of facultative endosymbiont infection ( ~ 38 %). These findings suggest that facultative endosymbionts do not affect parasitoid oviposition behaviour , but decrease parasitoid survival in the host. Facultative endosymbiont infection rates were lower in mummies collected from fertilized compared to unfertilized plants , indicating that plant fertilization boosts the facultative endosymbiont protective effect. Furthermore , we found strong evidence for species-specific and negative cascading effects of facultative endosymbionts on primary and hyperparasitoids , respectively. Facultative endosymbionts impacted parasitoid assemblages and increased the specialization of primary-hyperparasitoid food webs: these effects were independent from and much stronger than other environmental factors. The current findings strongly suggest that facultative endosymbionts act as a driving force in aphid-parasitoid-hyperparasitoid networks: they shape insect community composition at different trophic levels and modulate , directly and indirectly , the interactions between aphids , parasitoids and their environment.