 The repair of double-stranded breaks ( DSBs) in DNA is a highly coordinated process , necessitating the formation and resolution of multi-protein repair complexes. This process is regulated by a myriad of proteins that promote the association and disassociation of proteins to these lesions<symptom>. Thanks in large part to the ability to perform functional screens of a vast library of proteins , there is a greater appreciation of the genes necessary for the double-strand DNA break repair. Often knockout or chemical inhibitor screens identify proteins involved in repair processes by using increased toxicity as a marker for a protein that is required for DSB repair. Although useful for identifying novel cellular proteins involved in maintaining genome fidelity , functional analysis requires the determination of whether the protein of interest promotes localization , formation , or resolution of repair complexes. The accumulation of repair proteins can be readily detected as distinct nuclear foci by immunofluorescence microscopy. Thus , association and disassociation of these proteins at sites of DNA damage can be accessed by observing these nuclear foci at representative intervals after the induction of double-strand DNA breaks. This approach can also identify mis-localized repair factor proteins , if repair defects do not simultaneously occur with incomplete delays in repair. In this scenario , long-lasting double-strand DNA breaks can be engineered by expressing a rare cutting endonuclease ( e.g. , I-SceI) in cells where the recognition site for the said enzyme has been integrated into the cellular genome. The resulting lesion<symptom> is particularly hard to resolve as faithful repair will reintroduce the enzyme 's recognition site , prompting another round of cleavage. As a result , differences in the kinetics of repair are eliminated. If repair complexes are not formed , localization has been impeded. This protocol describes the methodology necessary to identify changes in repair kinetics as well as repair protein localization.