 The recovery of electronic waste to obtain secondary raw materials is a subject of high relevance in the context of circular economy. Accordingly , the present work relies on the evaluation of mining separation/concentration techniques ( comminution , size screening , magnetic separation and gravity concentration) alone as well as combined with thermal pre-treatment to recover gold and copper from Waste Printed Circuit Boards. For that purpose , Waste Printed Circuit Boards were subjected to physical processing ( comminution , size screening in 6 classes from < 0.425 mm to > 6.70 mm , magnetic separation and gravity concentration) alone and combined with thermal treatment ( 200-500 °C) , aiming the recovery of gold and copper. Mixed motherboards and graphic cards ( Lot 1 and 3) and highly rich components ( connectors separated from memory cards , Lot 2) were analyzed. Gold and copper concentrations were determined before and after treatment. Before treatment , concentrations from 0.01 to 0.6 % wt. and from 9 to 20 % wt. were found for gold and copper respectively. The highest concentrations were observed in the size fractions between 0.425 and 1.70 mm. The highest copper concentration was around 35 % wt. ( class 0.425-0.85 mm) and when analyzing memory card connectors alone , gold concentrations reached almost 2 % in the same class , reflecting the interest of separating such components. The physical treatment alone was more effective for Lot 1/3 , compared to Lot 2 , allowing recoveries of 67 % wt. and 87 % wt. for gold and copper respectively , mostly due to differences in particles size and shape. The thermal treatment showed unperceptive influence on gold concentration but significant effect for copper concentration , mostly attributed to the size of the copper particles. Concentrations increased in a factor of around 10 when the thermal treatment was performed at 300 °C for the larger particles ( 1.70-6.70 mm); the best results were obtained at 400 °C for the other sizes , when the highest rate of thermal decomposition of the material occurred.