 This review summarizes recent advances in leg regeneration research , focusing on the cricket Gryllus bimaculatus. Recent studies have revealed molecular mechanisms on blastema formation , establishment of positional information , and epigenetic regulation during leg regeneration. Especially , these studies have provided molecular bases in classical conceptual models such as the polar coordinate model , the intercalation model , the boundary model , the steepness model , etc. , which were proposed to interpret regeneration processes of the cockroach legs. When a leg is amputated , a blastema is formed through the activation of the Janus-kinase ( Jak)/ Signal-Transduction-and-Activator-of-Transcription ( STAT) pathway. Subsequently , the Hedgehog/Wingless/Decapentaplegic/ Epidermal-growth-factor pathways instruct distalization in the blastema , designated as the molecular boundary model. Downstream targets of this pathway are transcription factors Distal-less ( Dll) and dachshund ( dac) , functioning as key regulators of proximodistal pattern formation. Dll and dac specify the distal and proximal regions in the blastema , respectively , through the regulation of tarsal patterning genes. The expression of leg patterning genes during regeneration may be epigenetically controlled by histone H3K27 methylation via Enhancer-of-zeste and Ubiquitously-transcribed-tetratricopeptide-repeat-gene-X-chromosome. For the molecular mechanism of intercalation of the missing structures between the amputated position and the most distal one , Dachsous/Fat ( Ds/Ft) steepness model has been proposed , in which the Ds/Ft pathway maintains positional information and determines leg size through dac expression. This model was theoretically verified to interpret the experimental results obtained with cricket legs. Availability of whole-genome sequence information , regeneration-dependent RNA interference , and genome editing technique will have the cricket be an ideal model system to reveal gene functions in leg regeneration.