 Spectroscopic techniques for food quality analysis are limited to surface inspections and are highly affected by the superficial layers ( skin or packaging material) of the food samples. The ability of spatially offset Raman spectroscopy ( SORS) to obtain chemical information from below the surface of a sample makes it a promising candidate for the non-destructive analysis of the quality of packaged food. In the present study , we developed a line-scan SORS technique for obtaining the Raman spectra of packaged-food samples. This technique was used to quantify butter adulteration with margarine through two different types of packaging. Further , the significant commercial potential of the developed technique was demonstrated by its being able to discriminate between ten commercial varieties of butter and margarine whilst still in their original , unopened packaging. The results revealed that , while conventional backscattering Raman spectroscopy can not penetrate the packaging , thus preventing its application to the quality analysis of packaged food , SORS analysis yielded excellent qualitative and quantitative analyses of butter samples. The partial least-square regression analysis predictive values for the SORS data exhibit correlation coefficient values of 0.95 and 0.92 , associated with the prediction error 3.2 % and 3.9 % for cover-1 & 2 , respectively. The developed system utilizes a laser line ( ca. 14-cm wide) that enables the simultaneous collection of a large number of spectra from a sample. Thus , by averaging the spectra collected for a given sample , the signal-to-noise ratio of the final spectrum can be enhanced , which will then have a significant effect on the multivariate data analysis methods used for qualitative and/or qualitative analyses. This recently presented line-scan SORS technique could be applied to the development of high-throughput and real-time analysis techniques for determining the quality and authenticity various packaged agricultural products.