 Timely identification of a cow 's reproduction status is essential to minimize fertility-related losses on dairy farms. This includes optimal estrus detection , pregnancy diagnosis , and the timely recognition of early embryonic death and ovarian problems. On-farm milk progesterone ( P4) analysis can indicate all of these fertility events simultaneously. However , milk P4 measurements are subject to a large variability both in terms of measurement errors and absolute values between cycles. The objective of this paper is to present a newly developed methodology for detecting luteolysis preceding estrus and give an indication of its on-farm use. The innovative monitoring system presented is based on milk P4 using the principles of synergistic control. Instead of using filtering techniques and fixed thresholds , the present system employs an individually on-line updated model to describe the P4 profile , combined with a statistical process control chart to identify the cow 's fertility status. The inputs for the latter are the residuals of the on-line updated model , corrected for the concentration-dependent variability that is typical for milk P4 measurements. To show its possible use , the system was validated on the P4 profiles of 38 dairy cows. The positive predictive value for luteolysis followed by estrus was 100 % , meaning that the monitoring system picked up all estrous periods identified by the experts. Pregnancy or embryonic mortality was characterized by the absence or detection of luteolysis following an insemination , respectively. For 13 cows , no luteolysis was detected by the system within the 25 to 32 d after insemination , indicating pregnancy , which was confirmed later by rectal palpation. It was also shown that the system is able to cope with deviating P4 profiles having prolonged follicular or luteal phases , which may suggest the occurrence of cysts<symptom>. Future research is recommended for optimizing sampling frequency , predicting the optimal insemination window , and establishing rules to detect problems based on deviating P4 patterns.