 Renal trauma may be managed differently in tiered trauma systems and among those who requireinterfaculty transfer. To evaluate the initial management of renal trauma , assess patterns of management based on hospital trauma level designation and interfacility transfer status , and analyze management trends over time. Retrospective cohort study of renal trauma from the National Trauma Data Bank 2010-2015. Nephrectomy , angioembolization , or nonoperative management. We used generalized estimating equations to compare odds of each management outcome in patients transferred and directly admitted to a level I center , versus those directly admitted to a non-level I center , adjusting for vital signs , injury , demographic , and facility characteristics. We also used generalized estimating equations to examine linear time trends in management outcome , adjusting for injury characteristics. A total of 51798 renal trauma records were included: 44 838 low-grade ( American Association for the Surgery of Trauma I-III) and 6359 high grade ( IV-V) injuries. After adjusting for comorbidities , demographics , and hospital characteristics , odds of nephrectomy , angioembolization , and nonoperative management were similar in patients transferred or directly admitted to a level I center compared with those treated at a non-level I center. Changes in management over time demonstrated a decreased rate of nephrectomy ( p = 0.007) in high-grade injuries , while the rate of angioembolization remained constant ( p = 0.33). Study limitations include mortality prior to hospital transfer or arrival , and its retrospective nature. In this contemporary trauma analysis , outcomes of both low- and high-grade renal trauma are similar across patients managed in tiered trauma centers and those undergoing transfer , signifying dissemination of collective renal trauma management. The rate of nephrectomy has decreased for high-grade renal injury over our study period , suggesting new adoption of kidney-sparing management. Renal trauma is now managed similarly in tiered trauma centers and in patients requiring interfacility transfer. The rate of nephrectomy for high-grade renal injuries has decreased over time.