 The etiology of age-related olfactory loss is still unclear , but it has been claimed that polypharmacotherapy may contribute to olfactory dysfunction , particularly in the elderly , who are more likely to need multiple drugs. The present pilot study investigated the relationship between smell and the number and type of drugs taken in a group of elderly. 50 elderly volunteers ( over 64 years old) who were healthy from the sinonasal standpoint ( SNOT-22 under 1) and had no cognitive impairments ( Mini<pathogen> Mental<symptom> State Examination ( MMSE over 18) were administered the Screening 12 test and tested on their n-butanol olfactory threshold. Their olfactory performance was then connected with the number and type of drugs participants used. The mean age of the included volunteers was 74 plus/minus 7 years. No association emerged between odor identification and number of drugs taken. The number of drugs taken correlated directly with a worse olfactory threshold and with a worse MMSE score , meaning a worse cognitive status. Odor identification significantly worsened with age. Comparing those volunteers taking only one drug known to not influence olfaction with another sub-group of volunteers taking five or more drugs , it was evident that subjects taking only one drug scored significantly better in olfactory threshold test and MMSE , and marginally better in olfactory identification test. For what concerns the difference between male and female volunteers , no difference in olfactory test result was shown , both for threshold and identification. Univariate analysis showed a direct correlation between the consumption of calcium channel blockers , beta-blockers , acetylsalicylic acid and olfactory threshold , meaning a worse sense of smell. Acetylsalicylic acid also correlated inversely with odor identification , meaning again a worse sense of smell , and so did potassium-sparing diuretics. Multivariate analysis showed that MMSE scores correlated with a better sense of smell , that is a lower olfactory threshold , and that beta-blockers and acetylsalicylic acid negatively affected olfactory threshold , meaning a worse sense of smell. Acetylsalicylic acid also correlated inversely with odor identification , meaning again a worse sense of smell. The number of drugs taken demonstrated to be significantly correlated with a worse olfactory threshold and worse MMSE. Larger studies on elderly volunteers are needed to confirm these preliminary findings.