 Semen Torreyae , the seeds of Torreya grandis Fortune ex Lindley ( Cephalotaxaceae) is a well-known traditional Chinese medicinal plant recorded in the Chinese Pharmacopeia ( 2010 version). It is widely used for treating intestinal parasites in China , owing to its desirable efficacy and safety. However , the anthelmintic compounds in Semen Torreyae have not yet been identified. This study aims to identify the compounds active against helminths from Semen Torreyae. In addition , we tested whether C. elegans<pathogen> strains resistant to currently-used anthelmintic drugs showed cross-resistance to these compounds. A bioassay-guided isolation of anthelmintic compounds from Semen Torreyae was performed using a Caenorhabditis elegans<pathogen> ( C. elegans<pathogen>) testing model. The structures of active compounds were elucidated by a combination of GC-MS , high resolution MS , and NMR. The median-effect method was employed to generate a combination index ( CI) to evaluate the synergistic effect of the anthelmintic compounds. A panel of C. elegans<pathogen> mutant strains resistant against the major anthelmintic drug classes was used to study the cross-resistance to currently-used anthelmintic drugs. A panel of transient receptor potential ( TRP) channel mutant strains was also tested to explore the possible mechanisms of action of the anthelmintic compounds. The bioassay-guided isolation led to two active compounds , i.e. galangal acetate ( IC We identified the bioactive compounds from Semen Torreyae responsible for its anthelmintic activity: galangal acetate and miogadial. The two anthelmintic compounds demonstrated a synergistic effect against C. elegans<pathogen>. Galangal acetate and miogadial are unlikely to act on the targets of currently-used anthelmintics ( ivermectin , levamisole , benomyl and aldicarb) , and an action on TRP channels appears to be ruled out as well. In summary , galangal acetate and miogadial are promising anthelmintic hits worth further investigation.