 The most polarizable localized surface plasmon resonance ( LSPR) longitudinal mode of anisotropic metallic nanoparticles , such as gold bipyramids ( AuBPs) , is of high prominence. This optical response has tremendous applications from spectroscopy to photonics and energy devices to sensing. In conventional LSPR-based sensing , broadening and asymmetry in peaks due to chemical and instrument noise hinder obtaining a precise insight on shift positions , accordingly limiting the effectiveness and impact of LSPR sensors. Further , when investigating LSPR properties , utilizing more simplistic frequency dependent dielectric-type models can aberrantly impact the reliability of fundamental properties used for designing and fabricating efficient optical devices. For instance , more approximations can effectively limit screening intra-band and inter-band ( IB) electronic transition contributions and other related optical properties. With an aim to find alternative methods to further improve their efficiency , as a first report , we devoted a particular focus on LSPR scattering inflection points ( IFs) of single AuBPs. The findings reveal that tracking LSPR IFs exhibit high sensitivity over their counterpart LSPR peak shift locations. In addition , we newly detected IB transition contributions near the resonance energy in the range ( 1.50 eV-2.00 eV) dominated by intra-band transitions. A small increase in the local RI effectively enhances the LSPR quality factor due to IB transitions. Therefore , while neglecting IB transitions in the range below 2.4 eV can work for local air refractive index ( RI) , in high local RI media it can be aberrantly underestimated. Demonstrated by the use of the dielectric function based on Kramers-Kronig consistent Lorentz oscillators , our findings are in good agreement with the enhancing RI sensitivity effect. The results of this investigation support the idea that tracking curvature changes of an optical signal can be effectively used for LSPR longitudinal peak RI sensing as well as damping in the local RI environment of a single AuBP.