 To analyze the epidemic situation of blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> ( BP) status and its association with nutritional status among Chinese children and adolescents aged 7-18 years old in 2014 , and to provide important scientific basis for the control of students ' hypertension. All the subjects aged 7 to 18 years in both genders were sampled from 2014 Chinese national surveys on students ' constitution and health. BP status was evaluated according to Chinese national gender- , age- and height-specific references , including hypertension ( HTN) , elevated hypertension ( elevated HTN) , isolated systolic HTN ( SHTN) , isolated diastolic HTN ( DHTN) and mix HTN. Their nutritional status was evaluated using the international obesity task force ( IOTF) definition , including thinness ( severe thinness and moderate thinness) , normal , overweight and obesity ( severe obesity and moderate obesity). The Logistics method was used to analyze the association between BP status and nutritional status. The population attributable risk ( PAR %) of overweight and obesity for BP status was calculated. The prevalence of HTN and elevated HTN among the Chinese children and adolescents aged 7-18 years in 2014 was 14.9 % and 9.2 % , respectively. And the prevalence of isolated SHTN , isolated DHTN and mix HTN was 3.1 % , 8.8 % and 3.0 % , respectively. The prevalence estimates for HTN differed the greatest for the boys , those in rural , those with high age , those in the East , and those with high BMI. The highest prevalence of HTN was detected in those with severe obesity with 44.2 % and 38.8 % in the boys and girls respectively , which was 2.8-fold and 3.7-fold than those with normal groups. The negative association was detected between HTN and thinness , but the positive association with overweight and obesity. The PAR % of HTN due to overweight and obesity was 16.2 % , and the expected prevalence of HTN was 12.5 % if controlling for overweight and obesity. Higher PAR % of isolated SHTN and mix HTN due to overweight and obesity was detected in the Chinese children and adolescents with proportions of 28.7 % and 35.1 %. The prevalence of HTN among the Chinese children and adolescents aged 7-18 years was still high , whose components mainly focused on isolated DHTN. Overweight and obesity can increase the risk of HTN in children and adolescents significantly , especially for isolated SHTN and mix HTN. Controlling for overweight and obesity can decrease the risk of HTN among Chinese national children and adolescents largely , which can play an important role in preventing the occurrence of chronic<disease> disease<disease> in adults.