 Recurrent disease at the anastomotic site after bowel resection represents a major problem in patients with Crohn 's disease. In 2011 , a new anastomotic technique ( Kono-S anastomosis) was published , which as a functional end-to-end anastomosis creating a wide anastomotic diameter aimed to reduce the rate of recurrence after surgery. To evaluate the Kono-S anastomosis with respect to early and late postoperative complications and recurrence rate after surgical intestinal resection in patients with Crohn 's disease at a university center. All patients with Crohn 's disease who underwent Kono-S anastomoses between June 2015 and December 2016 at the Department of Surgery , University Medical Centre Mannheim , were included in the study. After obtaining informed consent , patient data regarding surgery and hospital stay were recorded in a prospective database. Follow-up was carried out by structured telephone interviews including disease progression , medication and surveillance. Statistical analysis was performed using the Graph Pad Prism 7 software. Ethics board approval was obtained from the Medical Ethics Commission II of the Medical Faculty Mannheim , Heidelberg University , Mannheim , Germany ( No. 2017-575N-MA). A total of 53 patients ( 32 female and 21 male) were included in this study. The median procedural time was 157 min. The median follow-up was 12 months ( range 4-23 months). Of the patients 3 developed early postoperative complications with a Clavien-Dindo score ≥ III and 25 patients with or without symptoms were controlled by endoscopy and/or magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) and no anastomotic recurrence was detected. No endoscopic interventions were necessary and 16 patients were symptom-free with no further specific therapy or controls. The Kono-S anastomosis is a safe anastomotic method with low morbidity. In the early follow-up recurrence rates of Crohn 's disease at the anastomotic site were low. In the literature a reoperation rate of 5 % per year is given for patients with Crohn 's disease after intestinal resection , so that in the long-term observation a valid statement on recurrence rate is possible. A potential advantage of the morphological end-to-end configuration of the Kono-S anastomosis is the better endoscopic dilatation compared to a side-to-side anastomosis. The Kono-S anastomotic technique has a low morbidity. In the early follow-up observational period no recurrence occurred in the anastomosis area in this series. Long-term data must clarify whether this technique is advantageous with respect to this aspect in the long run.