 Naïve human pluripotent stem cells ( N-hPSC) with improved functionality may have a wide impact in regenerative medicine. The goal of this protocol is to efficiently revert lineage-primed , conventional human pluripotent stem cells ( hPSC) maintained on either feeder-free or feeder-dependent conditions to a naïve-like pluripotency with improved functionality. This chemical naïve reversion method employs the classical leukemia<disease> inhibitory factor ( LIF) , GSK3β , and MEK/ERK inhibition cocktail ( LIF-2i) , supplemented with only a tankyrase inhibitor XAV939 ( LIF-3i). LIF-3i reverts conventional hPSC to a stable pluripotent state adopting biochemical , transcriptional , and epigenetic features of the human pre-implantation epiblast. This LIF-3i method requires minimal cell culture manipulation and is highly reproducible in a broad repertoire of human embryonic stem cell ( hESC) and transgene-free human induced pluripotent stem cell ( hiPSC) lines. The LIF-3i method does not require a re-priming step prior to the differentiation; N-hPSC can be differentiated directly with extremely high efficiencies and maintain karyotypic and epigenomic stabilities ( including at imprinted loci). To increase the universality of the method , conventional hPSC are first cultured in the LIF-3i cocktail supplemented with two additional small molecules that potentiate protein kinase A ( forskolin) and sonic hedgehog ( sHH) ( purmorphamine) signaling ( LIF-5i). This brief LIF-5i adaptation step significantly enhances the initial clonal expansion of conventional hPSC and permits them to be subsequently naïve-reverted with LIF-3i alone in bulk quantities , thus obviating the need for picking/subcloning rare N-hPSC colonies later. LIF-5i-stabilized hPSCs are subsequently maintained in LIF-3i alone without the need of anti-apoptotic molecules. Most importantly , LIF-3i reversion markedly improves the functional pluripotency of a broad repertoire of conventional hPSC by decreasing their lineage-primed gene expression and erasing the interline variability of directed differentiation commonly observed amongst independent hPSC lines. Representative characterizations of LIF-3i-reverted N-hPSC are provided , and experimental strategies for functional comparisons of isogenic hPSC in lineage-primed vs. naïve-like states are outlined.