 Traumatic spinal<disease> cord injury ( SCI) is a devastating injury , frequently resulting in paralysis and a lifetime of medical and social problems. Reducing time to surgery may improve patient outcomes. A vital first step to reduce times is to map current pathways of care from injury to surgery , identify rapid care pathways and factors associated with rapid care pathway times. A retrospective review of the Alfred Trauma Service records was undertaken for all cases of spinal injury recorded in the Alfred Trauma Registry over a three year period. Patients with an Abbreviated Injury Scale ( AIS) code matching 148 codes for spinal injury were included in the study. Information extracted from the Alfred Trauma Registry included demographic , clinical and key care timelines. Of the 342 cases identified , 119 had SCI. The average age of SCI patients was 52 years , with 84 % male. The vast majority of SCI patients experienced multiple concurrent injuries ( 87 %). Median time from injury to surgery was 17 h r 28 min for SCI patients in comparison to 28 h r 23 min for non-SCI patients. Three pathways to surgery were identified following Trauma Centre presentation- transfer to surgery direct from trauma unit ( median time to surgery was 4 h 17 min.) , via Intensive Care ( median time to surgery was 24 h 33 min) and via the ward ( median time to surgery 28 h r 35 min.) SCI was independently associated with the fastest pathway- direct transfer from trauma unit to surgery- with 41 % of SCI cases transferred directly to surgery from the trauma unit. Notwithstanding that the vast majority of SCI patients presented with other traumatic injuries , half of all SCI cases reached surgery within 18 h of injury , with 25 % within 9 h. SCI was independently associated with direct transfer to surgery from the trauma unit. SCI patients achieve rapid times to surgery within a complex trauma service. Furthermore , the trauma system is well positioned to implement further time reductions to surgery for SCI patients.