 Pneumococcal conjugate vaccines ( PCVs) have been available in Canada since 2001 , with 13-valent PCV ( PCV13) added to the infant routine immunization program throughout all Canadian provinces by 2011. The use of PCVs has dramatically reduced the burden of pneumococcal disease in Canada. As a result , decision-makers may consider switching from a more costly , higher-valent vaccine to a lower-cost , lower-valent vaccine in an attempt to allocate funds for other vaccine programs. We assessed the health and economic impact of switching the infant vaccination program from PCV13 to 10-valent PCV ( PCV10) in the context of the Canadian health care system. We performed a review of Canadian databases supplemented with published and unpublished data to obtain the historical incidence of pneumococcal disease and direct and indirect medical costs. Observed invasive pneumococcal disease ( IPD) trends from surveillance data were used as a basis to forecast the future number of cases of IPD , pneumococcal pneumonia<disease> , and acute otitis<disease> media<disease> given a PCV13- or PCV10-based program. Costs and outcomes over 10 years were then estimated and presented in 2017 Canadian dollars discounted at 3 % per year. Switching from PCV13 to PCV10 would result in an additional 762,531 cases of pneumococcal disease over 10 years. Although PCV13 has a higher acquisition cost , switching to PCV10 would increase overall costs by over $ 500 million. Forecasted overall disease incidence was estimated substantially higher with PCV10 than with PCV13 primarily because of the potential reemergence of serotypes 3 and 19A. PCV13 was also cost saving compared with PCV10 , even within a 5-year time horizon. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that a PCV13-based program remained cost saving in all simulations. Although switching to a PCV10-based infant vaccination program in Canada might result in lower acquisition costs , it would also result in higher public health cost and burden because of serotype reemergence. Pfizer Inc..