 The MOLECUBES β-CUBE scanner is the newest amongst commercially available preclinical PET scanners for dedicated small animal imaging. The scanner is compact , lightweight and utilizes a small footprint to facilitate bench-top imaging. It can be used individually , or in combination with the X-CUBE CT scanner , which provides the ability to perform all necessary PET data corrections and provide fully quantitative PET images. The PET detector comprises of an 8 mm thick monolithic LYSO scintillator read-out by an array of 3 mm × 3 mm Hamamatsu silicon photomultipliers. The monolithic scintillator provides the ability to measure depth-of-interaction which aids in the development of such a compact scanner. With a scanner diameter of 7.6 cm and axial length of 13 cm it is suitable for imaging both whole-body mice and rats. This paper presents the design and imaging performance of the β-CUBE scanner. NEMA NU4-2008 characterization and a variety of phantom and animal imaging studies to demonstrate the quantitative imaging performance of the PET scanner are presented. Spatial resolution of 1 mm is measured with a filtered-back projection reconstruction algorithm at the center of the scanner and DOI measurement helps maintain the excellent spatial resolution over the entire imaging FOV. An absolute peak sensitivity of 12.4 % is measured with a 255-765 keV energy window. The scanner demonstrates good count-rate performance , with a peak NEC of 300 kcps and 160 kcps measured with ~ 900 µCi in the NEMA mouse and rat phantoms , respectively. Imaging data with the NEMA image quality phantom and Micro Derenzo phantoms demonstrate the ability to achieve good image quality and accurate quantitative data. Image uniformity of 7.4 % and spill-over ratio of 8 % were measured. The superior spatial resolution , excellent energy resolution and sensitivity also provide superior contrast recovery , with ~ 70 % recovery for the 2 mm rods. While current commercial preclinical PET scanners have spatial resolution in the 1-2 mm range , the 1 mm