 OBJECTIVE The expanded endoscopic endonasal approach ( EEA) has shown promising results in treatment of midline skull base lesions<symptom>. Several case reports exist on the utilization of the EEA for treatment of aneurysms<disease>. However , a comparison of this approach with the classic transcranial orbitozygomatic approach to the basilar apex ( BAX) region is missing. The present study summarizes the results of a series of cadaveric surgical simulations for assessment of the EEA to the BAX region for aneurysm<disease> clipping and its comparison with the transcranial orbitozygomatic approach as one of the most common approaches used to treat BAX aneurysms<disease>. METHODS Fifteen cadaveric specimens underwent bilateral orbitozygomatic craniotomies as well as an EEA ( first without a pituitary transposition ( PT) and then with a PT) to expose the BAX. The following variables were measured , recorded , and compared between the orbitozygomatic approach and the EEA: 1) number of perforating arteries counted on bilateral posterior cerebral arteries ( PCAs); 2) exposure and clipping lengths of the PCAs , superior cerebellar arteries ( SCAs) , and proximal basilar artery; and 3) surgical area of exposure in the BAX region. RESULTS Except for the proximal basilar artery exposure and clipping , the orbitozygomatic approach provided statistically significantly greater values for vascular exposure and control in the BAX region ( i.e. , exposure and clipping of ipsilateral and contralateral SCAs and PCAs). The EEA with PT was significantly better in exposing and clipping bilateral PCAs compared to EEA without a PT , but not in terms of other measured variables. The surgical area of exposure and PCA perforator counts were not significantly different between the 3 approaches. The EEA provided better exposure and control if the BAX was located ≥ 4 mm inferior to the dorsum sellae. CONCLUSIONS For BAX aneurysms<disease> located in the retrosellar area , PT is usually required to obtain improved exposure and control for the bilateral PCAs. However , the transcranial approach is generally superior to both endoscopic approaches for accessing the BAX region. Considering the superior exposure of the proximal basilar artery obtained with the EEA , it could be a viable option when surgical treatment is considered for a low-lying BAX or mid-basilar trunk aneurysms<disease> ( ≥ 4 mm inferior to dorsum sellae).