 Lateral compartment acceleration and translation have been used to quantify rotatory knee laxity in the setting of anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) injury; however , their relationship remains elusive. The purpose of this study was to examine the correlation between lateral compartment acceleration and translation during pivot shift testing. It was hypothesized that a correlation would exist in ACL-injured and uninjured knees , irrespective of sex , but would be greatest in knees with combined ACL and lateral meniscus tear. Seventy-seven patients ( 34 females , 25.2 ± 9.0 years) undergoing primary single-bundle ACL reconstruction were prospectively enrolled in a 2-year study across four international centers. Patients underwent preoperative examination under anesthesia of the injured and uninjured knee using Image Analysis software and surface mounted accelerometer. A moderate correlation between lateral compartment acceleration and translation was observed in ACL-injured knees ( ρ = 0.36 , p < 0.05) , but not in uninjured knees ( ρ = 0.17 , not significant ( n.s.)). A moderate correlation between acceleration and translation was demonstrated in ACL-injured knees with lateral meniscus tears ( ρ = 0.53 , p < 0.05) , but not in knees with isolated ACL-injury ( ρ = 0.32 , n.s.) , ACL and medial meniscus tears ( ρ = 0.14 , n.s.) , or ACL and combined medial and lateral meniscus tears ( ρ = 0.40 , n.s.). A moderate correlation between acceleration and translation was seen in males ( ρ = 0.51 , p < 0.05) , but not in females ( ρ = 0.21 , n.s.). Largest correlations were observed in males with ACL and lateral meniscus tears ( ρ = 0.75 , p < 0.05). Lateral compartment acceleration and translation were moderately correlated in ACL-injured knees , but largely correlated in males with combined ACL and lateral meniscus tears. ACL and lateral meniscus injury in males might , therefore , be suspected when both lateral compartment acceleration and translation are elevated. Surgeons should have a greater degree of suspicion for high-grade rotatory knee laxity in ACL-injured males with concomitant lateral meniscus tears. Future studies should investigate how these two distinct components of rotatory knee laxity-lateral compartment acceleration and translation-are correlated with patient outcomes and affected by ACL surgery. Prospective cohort study; Level of evidence II.