 To analyze the incidence of adrenal suppression and the glucocorticoid ( GC) dose per kilogram body<symptom> weight given in infants treated with standard protocol for topical ophthalmic GCs after congenital cataract surgery. Retrospective , consecutive case series. All children younger than 2 years of age who underwent operation for congenital cataract between January 2011 and May 2015 in 1 center. Patient charts were reviewed to collect data on results and timing of a standard corticotropin ( adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH)) stimulation test and GC dose per kilogram body<symptom> weight. Incidence of adrenal suppression in children tested on GC treatment. Glucocorticoid dose per kilogram body<symptom> weight. Among 26 consecutive infants , 15 ( 58 %) were tested while they were still on GC treatment. Ten of these 15 infants ( 67 %) had adrenal suppression , 2 of whom had obvious clinical signs of Cushing 's syndrome<disease><symptom> and 1 of whom had signs of Addisonian crises during general anesthesia. Eleven of the 26 infants ( 42 %) were tested at a median time of 21 days ( range , 6-89) after treatment cessation , and they all had normal test results. Children with suppressed adrenal function had received cumulative GC doses per body<symptom> weight that were significantly higher the last 5 days before testing compared with children with normal test results. Infants with adrenal suppression were treated with hydrocortisone replacement therapy. Adrenal function recovered after a median of 3.1 months ( range , 2.3 months to 2.3 years). Two thirds of the infants tested during treatment with a standard GC protocol after congenital cataract surgery showed adrenal suppression. There was a significant association between the cumulative daily dose of GCs and the test result. Because adrenal suppression is a serious but treatable condition , we recommend a systematic assessment of adrenal function in infants treated with doses of topical ocular GCs comparable to our regimen and careful evaluations of other treatment regimens.