 We hypothesized that gene expression and fatty acid composition would differ among different muscle depots and over time on a grain-based finishing diet. Additionally , we hypothesized that the concentration of SFA would decrease and the concentration of MUFA would increase proportionately with increases in percent intramuscular lipid ( % IML). Ten Yanbian Yellow<pathogen><disease><symptom> cattle steers ( approximately 8 mo of age) were fed a corn-based diet in which the proportion of corn in the ration was increased at 4-mo intervals. Muscle samples were taken by biopsy from the chuck ( trapezius) , loin ( longissimus dorsi) , and round ( biceps femoris) muscles at 12 , 16 , 20 , 24 , and 28 mo of age. The % IML increased from 12 to 28 mo of age , especially between 24 and 28 mo of age , with loin > round > chuck ( age × muscle interaction P < 0.001). The percentage ( g/100 g total fatty acids) of oleic acid ( 18:1 n-9) , linoleic acid ( 18:2 n-6) , and α-linolenic acid ( 18:3 n-3) , and the MUFA: SFA ratio increased with age , whereas palmitic ( 16:0) and stearic acid ( 18:0) decreased with age in all muscles ( age effect P < 0.001). The expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP1) , adipose tissue fatty acid- binding protein ( FABP4) , stearoyl-CoA desaturase ( SCD) , acetyl-CoA carboxylase ( ACC1) , and lipoprotein lipase ( LPL) increased , whereas the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARγ) and fatty acid synthase ( FASN) decreased with age. Expression of PPARγ , FABP4 , SREBP1 , SCD , FASN , ACC1 , and LPL was greater in the loin than in the chuck or round ( age × muscle interaction P < 0.001) , although the MUFA: SFA ratio was greater in the chuck than in the loin or round ( muscle effect P < 0.001). In conclusion , adipogenic gene expression was greater in the loin than in the chuck or round muscles , consistent with the greater % IML of the loin. However , the greater SCD gene expression in the loin did not result in a greater amount of MUFA in the loin , relative to the chuck and round.