 Previous studies have compared radiographic and computed tomography ( CT) imaging for the evaluation of prearthritic hip<symptom> pain<symptom>. However , the intermodality , interrater , and intrarater consistencies of those parameters have not been investigated. To determine whether radiographs with an anteroposterior pelvis view and 45 °- Dunn lateral view reliably correlate with CT in the context of lateral center edge ( LCE) , Tonnis , alpha , and beta angle measurements for femoroacetabular impingement or hip dysplasia diagnosis. Retrospective study. Academic orthopedic institution. Fifty consecutive participants with hip<symptom> pain<symptom> in the institutional hip registry with radiographs and CT imaging on file were evaluated between 2013 and 2014. Radiologic data ( 50 CTs and 50 radiographs) were evaluated by 3 physicians. LCE , Tonnis , alpha , and beta angles were measured on radiographs and CTs in 2 rounds of readings. In round 1 , the center of rotation on CT imaging was standardized by 1 rater. In round 2 , individual raters chose CT images using a quadrant method , and reproducibility was assessed. Reliability statistics were operationalized with intraclass correlation coefficients ( ICCs). Intermodality , intrarater , and interrater reliability of CT versus radiographic measurements. The intermodality reliability for all raters was excellent ( ICC ( 95 % CI): 0.84 ( 0.76-0.90) to 0.97 ( 0.96-0.98)). Intrarater reliability for both modalities showed excellent reliability ( ICC = 0.75-0.96). Interrater reliability of CT measures of LCE , Tonnis , and alpha angles demonstrated excellent agreement ( ICC ≥ 0.88). Beta angle measures demonstrated good agreement ( ICC ( 95 % CI) = 0.68 ( 0.49-0.81)). Interrater reliability of radiographic measures showed excellent agreement ( ICC = 0.82-0.94). Equivalent angle measurement readings on CT and radiographs were consistent among physicians. CT measurements correlated well with radiographic measurements. This suggests that if a standardized procedure is used to find the center of the femoral head , a positive correlation among LCE , alpha , beta , and Tonnis angles measured on CT can be obtained between multiple readers. III.