 To evaluate the surgical outcomes in a series of Madelung wrists treated with a Vicker ligament release at a young age. We hypothesize that early treatment of Madelung deformity with Vicker ligament release is safe and may minimize progression of deformity. A retrospective review was performed at a single large pediatric institution from 2013 to 2016 of patients with a diagnosis of Madelung deformity treated with Vicker ligament release and radial physiolysis. Exclusion criteria included patients who were skeletally mature , who underwent osteotomy procedures , or who had incomplete follow-up. Patient demographics were collected , concomitant surgeries were recorded , and outcomes including range of motion and pain were documented. Measurements of standard anteroposterior and lateral radiographs were calculated before and after surgery to monitor radiographic deformity and progression. Six girls with bilateral Madelung deformity who underwent bilateral Vicker ligament resection and radial physiolysis ( 12 total wrists) were included. The average age at presentation was 7.5 years ( range , 7-9 years) , with an average follow-up of 30 months. Reasons for presentation included sports injuries ( 2) , ulnar-sided wrist pain ( 2) , and mild deformity ( 2). Additional radial and ulnar epiphysiodeses were performed in 2 wrists each. There were no intraoperative complications. Although pain resolved within the first month after surgery for all patients , 2 patients had intermittent unilateral ulnar-sided wrist pain at final follow-up. All patients returned to their presurgery activities. There was no loss of range of motion , and 4 wrists with preoperative supination deficits improved by an average of 17 °. Radiographic measurements demonstrated improvement in the radial physeal angle in 10 out of 12 wrists ( 83 %). No patients displayed worsening deformity after surgery. Two patients underwent subsequent procedures. In patients with early Madelung deformity , Vicker ligament release with radial physiolysis is a safe treatment option that theoretically has the potential to minimize the progression of radiographic deformity. Therapeutic V.