 The mutation accumulation theory of senescence predicts that age-related deterioration of fitness can be exaggerated when inbreeding causes homozygosity for deleterious alleles. A vital component of fitness , in natural populations , is the incidence and progression of disease. Evidence is growing for natural links between inbreeding and ageing; between inbreeding and disease; between sex and ageing; and between sex and disease. However , there is scant evidence , to date , for links among age , disease , inbreeding and sex in a single natural population. Using ecological and epidemiological data from a long-term longitudinal field study , we show that in wild European badgers ( Meles meles) exposed naturally to bovine tuberculosis<disease> ( bTB) , inbreeding ( measured as multilocus homozygosity) intensifies a positive correlation between age and evidence of progressed infection ( measured as an antibody response to bTB) , but only among females. Male badgers suffer a steeper relationship between age and progressed infection than females , with no influence of inbred status. We found no link between inbreeding and the incidence of progressed infection during early life in either sex. Our findings highlight an age-related increase in the impact of inbreeding on a fitness-relevant trait ( disease state) among females. This relationship is consistent with the predictions of the mutation accumulation theory of senescence , but other mechanisms could also play a role. For example , late-life declines in condition , arising through mechanisms other than mutation accumulation might have increased the magnitude of inbreeding depression<symptom> in late life. Whichever mechanism causes the observed patterns , we have shown that inbreeding can influence age-dependent patterns of disease and , by extension , is likely to affect the magnitude and timing of the late-life declines in components of fitness that characterise senescence. Better understanding of sex-specific links between inbreeding , disease and ageing provides insights into population-level pathogen dynamics and could influence management strategies for wildlife reservoirs of zoonotic disease.