 Ankle joint hyper-resistance in children with spastic cerebral palsy ( SCP) is commonly treated with Botulinum<pathogen> Toxin-A ( BoNT-A) injections in the medial gastrocnemius ( MG) combined with lower-leg casting. The overall aim of this combined treatment is to reduce spasticity and increase range of motion ( 1). Since hyper-resistance assessment mainly focuses on the joint level , whereas the treatment is directed at the muscle , it is worthwhile investigating the individual effects of BoNT-A and casting on MG and tendon lengths , to provide insight into the working mechanisms and to help improving treatment efficacy. What are the effects of BoNT-A injections and lower-leg casting on the MG and tendon lengths , at resting position and maximum dorsiflexion , in children with SCP? Children with SCP were assigned by minimization to receive either two weeks of lower-leg casts ( n = 12 , mean age 8.27 years; GMFCS-level I-III) or MG BoNT-A injections ( n = 11 , mean age: 6.75 years; GMFCS-level I-III). Data was acquired by 3D-freehand-ultrasound ( 2) at baseline and two weeks post-intervention with the knee in flexion ( 30.9 ° ± 3.7 °) and the ankle in resting position and maximum dorsiflexion ( maxDF). The same assessor extracted muscle and tendon lengths from the 3D reconstructions twice , and the standard error of measurement ( SEM) was quantified. Muscle tendon unit ( MTU) length was calculated as the summation of muscle ( ML) and tendon length ( TL). The change in ML and TL between rest and maxDF was used to calculate extensibility. Within-group treatment effect was evaluated with Wilcoxon signed rank tests and treatment differences , with Mann-Whitney U tests. Post-treatment changes were considered significant when > SEM and p < 0.05. At baseline , groups did not differ for age , joint angles and lengths. Post-casting , resting angle , maxDF , MTU and TL at maxDF significantly increased. While two weeks post-BoNT-A-injection only MTU length and ML at rest significantly increased. There was no treatment effect on the extensibility. The change in maxDF , and ML at rest were significantly larger post-casting compared to post-BoNT-A. Similarly , the post-treatment change in MTU length at maxDF was significantly larger after casting compared to BoNT-A. The results suggest that two weeks casting resulted in increased maxDF and MTU-length by increased TL ( or compliance). This confirms previous research on the effects of ankle foot orthoses on MG morphology ( 3). BoNT-A on the other hand , affected the muscle 's resting length , however without gain in extensibility or MTU-length. This emphasizes the requirement to combine both treatments , but also cautions the use of stretching casts for having adverse effects on the tendon. The treatment-effects on the MTU on the long-term and their carry over effect to gait is material for further investigation.