 Radiation oncologists in Russia face a number of unique professional difficulties including lack of standardized training and continuing medical education. To combat this , under the auspices of the Russian Society of Clinical Oncology ( RUSSCO) , our group has developed a series of ongoing in-person interactive contouring workshops that are held during the major Russian oncology conferences in Moscow , Russia. Since November 2016 during each workshop , we utilized a web-based open-access interactive three-dimensional contouring atlas as part of our didactics. We sought to determine the impact of this resource on radiation oncology practice in Russia. We distributed an IRB-approved web-based survey to 172 practicing radiation oncologists in Russia. We inquired about practice demographics , RUSSCO contouring workshop attendance , and the clinical use of open-access English language interactive contouring atlas ( eContour). The survey remained open for 2 months until November 2017. Eighty radiation oncologists completed the survey with a 46.5 % response rate. Mean number of years in practice was 13.7. Sixty respondents ( 75 %) attended at least one RUSSCO contouring workshop. Of those who were aware of eContour , 76 % were introduced during a RUSSCO contouring workshop , and 81 % continue to use it in their daily practice. The greatest obstacles to using the program were language barrier ( 51 %) and internet access ( 38 %). Nearly 90 % reported their contouring practices changed since they started using the program , particularly for delineation of clinical target volumes ( 57 %) and/or organs at risk ( 46 %). More than 97 % found the clinical pearls/links to cooperative group protocols in the software helpful in their daily practice. The majority used the contouring program several times per month ( 43 %) or several times per week ( 41 %). Face-to-face contouring instruction in combination with open-access web-based interactive contouring resource had a meaningful impact on perceived quality of radiation oncology contours among Russian practitioners and has the potential to have applications worldwide.