 In-situ snow measurements conducted by European institutions for operational , research , and energy business applications were surveyed in the framework of the European Cooperation in Science and Technology ( COST) Action ES1404 , called `` A European network for a harmonised monitoring of snow for the benefit of climate change scenarios , hydrology , and numerical weather prediction ''. Here we present the results of this survey , which was answered by 125 participants from 99 operational and research institutions , belonging to 38 European countries. The typologies of environments where the snow measurements are performed range from mountain<disease> to low elevated plains , including forests , bogs , tundra , urban areas , glaciers , lake ice , and sea ice. Of the respondents , 93 % measure snow macrophysical parameters , such as snow presence , snow depth ( HS) , snow water equivalent ( SWE) , and snow density. These describe the bulk characteristics of the whole snowpack or of a snow layer , and they are the primary snow properties that are needed for most operational applications ( such as hydrological monitoring , avalanche forecast , and weather forecast). In most cases , these measurements are done with manual methods , although for snow presence , HS , and SWE , automatized methods are also applied by some respondents. Parameters characterizing precipitating and suspended snow ( such as the height of new snow , precipitation intensity , flux of drifting/blowing snow , and particle size distribution) , some of which are crucial for the operational services , are measured by 74 % of the respondents. Parameters characterizing the snow microstructural properties ( such as the snow grain size and shape , and specific surface area) , the snow electromagnetic properties ( such as albedo , brightness temperature , and backscatter) , and the snow composition ( such as impurities and isotopes) are measured by 41 % , 26 % , and 13 % of the respondents , respectively , mostly for research applications. The results of this survey are discussed from the perspective of the need of enhancing the efficiency and coverage of the in-situ observational network applying automatic and cheap measurement methods. Moreover , recommendations for the enhancement and harmonization of the observational network and measurement practices are provided.