 Stress is a well-known risk factor for psychopathology and rodent models of social defeat have strong face , etiological , construct and predictive validity for these conditions. Syrian hamsters are highly aggressive and territorial , but after an acute social defeat experience they become submissive and no longer defend their home territory , even from a smaller , non-aggressive intruder. This defeat-induced change in social behavior is called conditioned defeat ( CD). We have shown that dominant hamsters show increased neural activity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex ( vmPFC) following social defeat stress and exhibit a reduced CD response at social interaction testing compared to subordinates. Although the vmPFC can inhibit the neuroendocrine stress response , it is unknown whether dominants and subordinates differ in stress-induced activity of the extended hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis. Here , we show that , following acute social defeat , dominants exhibit decreased submissive and defensive behavior compared to subordinates but do not differ from subordinates or social status controls ( SSCs) in defeat-induced cortisol concentrations. Furthermore , both dominants and SSCs show greater corticotropin-releasing hormone ( CRH) mRNA expression in the basolateral/central amygdala compared to subordinates , while there was no effect of social status on CRH mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Overall , status-dependent differences in the CD response do not appear linked to changes in stress-induced cortisol concentrations or CRH gene expression , which is consistent with the view that stress resilience is not a lack of a physiological stress response but the addition of stress coping mechanisms. Lay summary Dominant hamsters show resistance to the behavioral effects of acute social defeat compared to subordinates , but it is unclear whether social status modulates the neuroendocrine stress response in Syrian hamsters. This study indicates that dominant social status does not alter stress-induced activity of the extended hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis , which suggests that the ability of dominants to cope with social defeat stress is not associated with changes in their neuroendocrine stress response.