 Limited research has been conducted on the impact of deployment-related trauma exposure on post-traumatic stress symptoms in military medical personnel. This study evaluated the association between exposure to both combat experiences and medical duty stressors and post-traumatic stress symptoms in deployed military medical personnel. U.S. military medical personnel ( N = 1,138; 51 % male) deployed to Iraq between 2004 and 2011 were surveyed about their exposure to combat stressors , healthcare stressors , and symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD). All participants were volunteers , and the surveys were completed anonymously approximately halfway into their deployment. The Combat Experiences Scale was used as a measure of exposure to and impact of various combat-related stressors such as being attacked or ambushed , being shot at , and knowing someone seriously injured or killed. The Military Healthcare Stressor Scale ( MHSS) was modeled after the Combat Experiences Scale and developed for this study to assess the impact of combat-related healthcare stressors such as exposure to patients with traumatic amputations , gaping wounds<disease><symptom> , and severe burns. The Post-traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist-Military Version ( PCL-M) was used to measure the symptoms of PTSD. Eighteen percent of the military medical personnel reported exposure to combat experiences that had a significant impact on them. In contrast , more than three times as many medical personnel ( 67 %) reported exposure to medical-specific stressors that had a significant impact on them. Statistically significant differences were found in self-reported exposure to healthcare stressors based on military grade , education level , and gender. Approximately 10 % of the deployed medical personnel screened positive for PTSD. Approximately 5 % of the sample were positive for PTSD according to a stringent definition of caseness ( at least moderate scores on requisite Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders criteria and a total PCL-M score ≥ 50). Both the MHSS scores ( r ( 1,127) = 0.49 , p < 0.0001) and the Combat Experiences Scale scores ( r ( 1,127) = 0.34 , p < 0.0001) were significantly associated with PCL-M scores. However , the MHSS scores had statistically larger associations with PCL-M scores than the Combat Experiences Scale scores ( z = 5.57 , p < 0.0001). The same was true for both the minimum criteria for scoring positive for PTSD ( z = 3.83 , p < 0.0001) and the strict criteria PTSD ( z = 1.95 , p = 0.05). The U.S. military has provided significant investments for the funding of research on the prevention and treatment of combat-related PTSD , and military medical personnel may benefit from many of these treatment programs. Although exposure to combat stressors places all service members at risk of developing PTSD , military medical personnel are also exposed to many significant , high-magnitude medical stressors. The present study shows that medical stressors appear to be more impactful on military medical personnel than combat stressors , with approximately 5-10 % of deployed medical personnel appearing to be at risk for clinically significant levels of PTSD.