 In this paper , we first review fundamental aspects of magnetoresistance in multi-valley systems based on the semiclassical theory. Then we will review experimental evidence and theoretical understanding of magnetoresistance in an archetypal multi-valley system , where the electric conductivity is set by the sum of the contributions of different valleys. Bulk bismuth has three valleys with an extremely anisotropic effective mass. As a consequence the magnetoconductivity in each valley<disease> is extremely sensitive to the orientation of the magnetic field. Therefore , a rotating magnetic field plays the role of a valley<disease> valve tuning the contribution of each valley<disease> to the total conductivity. In addition to this simple semiclassical effect , other phenomena arise in the high-field limit as a consequence of an intricate Landau spectrum. In the vicinity of the quantum limit , the orientation of magnetic field significantly affects the distribution of carriers in each valley<disease> , namely , the valley<disease> polarization is induced by the magnetic field. Moreover , experiment has found that well beyond the quantum limit , one or two valleys become totally empty. This is the only case in condensed matter physics where a Fermi sea is completely dried up by a magnetic field without a metal-insulator transition. There have been two long-standing problems on bismuth near the quantum limit: the large anisotropic Zeeman splitting of holes , and the extra peaks in quantum oscillations , which can not be assigned to any known Landau levels. These problems are solved by taking into account the interband effect due to the spin-orbit couplings for the former , and the contributions from the twinned crystal for the latter. Up to here , the whole spectrum can be interpreted within the one-particle theory. Finally , we will discuss transport and thermodynamic signatures of breaking of the valley<disease> symmetry in this system. By this term , we refer to the observed spontaneous<symptom> loss<symptom> of threefold symmetry at high magnetic field and low temperature. Its theoretical understanding is still missing. We will discuss possible explanations.