 Safarimosavi , S , Mohebbi , H , and Rohani , H. High-intensity interval vs. continuous endurance training: Preventive effects on hormonal changes and physiological adaptations in prediabetes patients. J Strength Cond Res XX ( X): 000-000 , 2018-The aim of this study was to examine the effects of a 12-week high-intensity interval training ( HIIT) intervention , or an isocaloric continuous endurance training ( CET) intervention on insulin resistance indices and change in irisin and preptin in patients with prediabetes. Thirty-two prediabetic male patients ( age = 38.7 ± 4; body mass index = 26.9 ± 1.4 kg · m; and V ( Combining Dot Above) O2peak = 2.49 ± 0.22 L · min) were randomly assigned into 3 training groups ( N = 8). These groups were matched based on the required energy expenditure ( EE) for completing each protocol: ( a) HIIT ( 10 × 60 seconds at 90 % peak oxygen uptake ( V ( Combining Dot Above) O2peak) , 1: 1 work to recovery at 50 W) , ( b) CET at an intensity equivalent to maximal fat oxidation ( Fatmax) ( CETFAT) ( pedaling for a duration that expends an equivalent EE to an HIIT session ( E ≈ HIIT)) , ( c) CET at an intensity equivalent to anaerobic threshold ( CETAT) ( E ≈ HIIT) , and ( d) the control group ( CON): continued to perform their daily activities. After intervention , blood glucose levels were significantly ( p < 0.05) lower in the HIIT group compared with CETAT group. Exercise training improved the insulin resistance index by 35 , 28 , and 37 % in CETFAT , CETAT , and HIIT groups , respectively. Irisin concentrations in the HIIT and CETAT groups was significantly ( p < 0.05) decreased compared with the pre-training values. Also , HIIT and CETFAT resulted in significant ( p < 0.05) changes in preptin concentration compared with baseline. This study demonstrated that both HIIT and CETFAT protocols had similar effects on the insulin resistance index of prediabetic patients. Also , the intensity and type of exercise were effective factors in changing irisin and preptin concentrations.