 Chronic<symptom> heart<symptom> failure<symptom> is becoming increasingly prevalent and is still associated with a high mortality rate. Myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis<disease> drive cardiac remodeling and heart<symptom> failure<symptom> , but they are not sufficiently inhibited by current treatment strategies. Furthermore , despite increasing knowledge on cardiomyocyte intracellular signaling proteins inducing pathological hypertrophy , therapeutic approaches to target these molecules are currently unavailable. In this study , we aimed to establish and test a therapeutic tool to counteract the 22kDa calcium and integrin binding protein ( CIB) 1 , which we have previously identified as nodal regulator of pathological cardiac hypertrophy and as activator of the maladaptive calcineurin/NFAT axis. Among three different sequences , we selected a shRNA construct ( shCIB1) to specifically downregulate CIB1 by 50 % upon adenoviral overexpression in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes ( NRCM) , and upon overexpression by an adeno-associated-virus ( AAV) 9 vector in mouse hearts. Overexpression of shCIB1 in NRCM markedly reduced cellular growth , improved contractility of bioartificial cardiac tissue and reduced calcineurin/NFAT activation in response to hypertrophic stimulation. In mice , administration of AAV-shCIB1 strongly ameliorated eccentric cardiac hypertrophy and cardiac dysfunction during two weeks of pressure overload by transverse aortic constriction ( TAC). Ultrastructural and molecular analyses revealed markedly reduced myocardial fibrosis<disease> , inhibition of hypertrophy associated gene expression and calcineurin/NFAT as well as ERK-MAP kinase activation after TAC in AAV-shCIB1 versus AAV-shControl treated mice. During long-term exposure to pressure overload for 10 weeks , AAV-shCIB1 treatment maintained its anti-hypertrophic and anti-fibrotic effects , but cardiac function was no longer improved versus AAV-shControl treatment , most likely resulting from a reduction in myocardial angiogenesis upon downregulation of CIB1. Inhibition of CIB1 by a shRNA-mediated gene-therapy potently inhibits pathological cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis<disease> during pressure overload. While cardiac function is initially improved by shCIB1 , this can not be kept up during persisting overload.