 Study Design Overview of systematic reviews. Background The evaluation of psychometric properties of neck Patient-Reported Outcome Measures ( PROMs) from multiple systematic reviews ( SRs) will provide a broader view and may identify potential conflicting or consistent results for their psychometric properties. Objective The purpose of this study was to conduct an overview of SRs and synthesize evidence to establish the current state of knowledge on psychometric properties of PROM 's for patients with neck disorders. Methods An electronic search of 6 databases ( MEDLINE , EMBASE , CINAHL , ILC , CENTRAL and LILACS) was conducted to identify reviews that addressed at least one measurement property of outcome measures for people with neck<symptom> pain<symptom>. Only SRs with PROMs were included in the analysis. Risk of bias was assessed with AMSTAR tool. Data on measurement properties were extracted from each SR.. Results From 13 SRs , eight PROMs were evaluated in more than 2 reviews. Risk of bias scores ranged from moderate ( score 5-8) to high ( score < 4). Findings on internal consistency , test re-test reliability , construct validity , responsiveness to change , content and structural validity were synthesized for: Neck Disability Index ( NDI) in 11 SRs , Northwick Park Neck<symptom> Pain<symptom> Questionnaire ( NPQ) in 6 SRs , Copenhagen Neck Functional Disability Scale ( CNDFS) and Neck<symptom> Pain<symptom> and Disability Scale ( NPDS) in 6 SRs , Core Neck Questionnaire ( CNQ) and Patient Specific Functional Scale ( PSFS) in 3 SRs , Whiplash Disability Questionnaire ( WDQ) and Neck Bournemouth Questionnaire ( NBQ) in 3 SRs. Conclusions High quality evidence was found for NDI of good to excellent internal consistency and moderate<symptom> to excellent test-retest reliability. Moderate quality evidence was found for NPQ of good to excellent internal consistency and good test-retest reliability. High quality evidence was found for CNFDS of excellent test-retest reliability and good to strong construct validity with pain scales. Moderate quality evidence was found for NDPS of unclear to excellent internal consistency and moderate<symptom> to strong concurrent associations between NDPS and NDI , NDPS and Global assessment of change. Moderate quality evidence was found for WDQ of excellent internal consistency and high test-retest reliability for PSFS. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther , Epub 22 Jun 2018. doi: 10.2519/ jospt .2018.8131.