 The aim of this study was to identify the optimal timing of fluorine-18-fluoromisonidazole ( F-MISO) PET/CT imaging to assess hypoxia in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Eighteen patients underwent pretreatment F-MISO PET/CT imaging after providing written informed consent. PET scans were acquired at 1 , 3 , and 5 h after injection of the radionuclide. The mean standardized uptake value ( SUV) within a spherical region of interest placed on the contralateral neck musculature at the level of the largest tumor dimension was labeled as background. A value 1.5 times the background was deemed the threshold for significant hypoxia. Using this threshold , volumetric regions of interest encompassing the tumor were placed and hypoxic tumor volume ( HTV) was generated for the primary tumor. Repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare the F-MISO PET/CT metrics across the three time-points. The volume of the primary tumor was also correlated with HTV. The mean SUV of the background decreased consistently over time , resulting in increased focality of F-MISO uptake in the tumor tissues. Analysis of variance showed statistically significant differences in the mean SUV measurements of the background between the 1-h and the 3-h time-points ( P = 0.034) as well as the 1-h and the 5-h time-points ( P = 0.034). In parallel , the mean HTV increased from 1.72 cm at 1 h after injection to 6.52 cm at 3 h and further to 7.24 cm at 5 h , with a statistically significant difference between the 1-h and the 3-h scans ( P = 0.023) and the 1-h and the 5-h scans ( P = 0.023). There was a moderately good positive correlation between gross tumor volume on planning computed tompography ( CT) and HTV at 3 h on the F-MISO scan ( Pearson 's correlation co-efficient ` r ' = +0.753; P < 0.0001). The contrast resolution of F-MISO PET/CT scans in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is suboptimal with early image acquisition , but improves significantly after delayed imaging. Increasing volume of tumor at the primary site is associated with an increase in hypoxia.