 OBJECTIVE Encephalo-myo-synangiosis ( EMS) is an effective revascularization procedure for the treatment of moyamoya disease ( MMD). However , the temporalis muscle used for EMS sometimes swells and causes ischemic complications by compressing the underlying brain. This study aimed to elucidate the effect of sagittal splitting ( SS) of the muscle for prevention of ischemic complications and its impact on the postoperative development of collateral vessels. METHODS In this historical case-control study , we analyzed 60 hemispheres in adult patients with MMD who underwent EMS using the temporalis muscle from December 1998 to November 2017. The muscle was divided anteroposteriorly by coronal splitting , and the anterior , posterior , or both parts of the muscle were used for EMS in 17 , 4 , and 39 hemispheres , respectively. In cases performed after 2006 , the muscle was halved by SS , and the medial half was used for EMS to reduce the muscle volume ( n = 47). The degree of postoperative muscle<symptom> swelling was evaluated by measuring the maximum thickness of the muscle on CT scans obtained 3 to 7 days after surgery. The collateral developments of the anterior deep temporal artery ( aDTA) , posterior deep temporal artery ( pDTA) , and middle temporal artery ( MTA) were assessed using digital subtraction angiography and MR angiography performed 6 months or more after surgery. RESULTS SS significantly reduced the temporalis muscle thickness from 12.1 ± 5.0 mm to 7.1 ± 3.0 mm ( p < 0.01). Neurological deterioration due to the swollen temporalis muscle developed in 4 of the 13 hemispheres without SS ( cerebral infarction in 1 , reversible neurological deficit in 2 , and convulsion<symptom> in 1) but in none with SS. There were no significant differences in the postoperative collateral developments of the aDTA , pDTA , and MTA between hemispheres with and without SS. The MTA more frequently developed in hemispheres with EMS in which the posterior part of the muscle was used ( 30/37) than those in which this part was not used ( 4/16) ( p < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS SS of the temporalis muscle might prevent neurological deterioration caused by the swollen temporalis muscle by reducing its volume without inhibiting the development of the collateral vessels.