 This work aims to characterize the performance of an improved 4DCT technique aiming to overcome irregular breathing-related image artifacts. To address this , we have developed respiratory motion guided ( RMG) 4DCT , which uses real-time breathing motion analysis to prospectively gate scans based on detection of irregular breathing. This is the first investigation of RMG-4DCT using a real-time software prototype , testing the hypothesis that it can reduce breathing irregularities during imaging , reduce image oversampling and improve image quality compared to a ` conventional ' 4DCT protocol without breathing guidance. RMG-4DCT scans were simulated based on 100 + hours of breathing motion acquired for 20 lung cancer patients. Scan performance was quantified in terms of the beam on time ( a surrogate for imaging dose) , total scan time and the breathing irregularity during imaging ( via RMSE of the breathing motion during acquisition). A conventional 4DCT protocol was also implemented using the same software prototype for a direct comparator to the RMG-4DCT results. We investigated the impact of key RMG-4DCT parameters such as gating tolerance , gantry rotation time and the use of baseline drift correction. Using a representative set of algorithm parameters , RMG-4DCT achieved significant mean reductions in estimated imaging dose ( -17.8 % , p < 0.001) and breathing RMSE during imaging ( -12.6 % , p < 0.001) compared to conventional 4DCT. These improvements came with increased scan times , roughly doubled on average ( 104 % , p < 0.001). Image quality simulations were performed using the deformable digital XCAT phantom , with image quality quantified based on the normalized cross correlation ( NCC) between axial slices. RMG-4DCT demonstrated qualitative image quality improvements for three out of 10 phase bins , however the improvement was not significant across all 10 phases ( p = 0.08) at a population level. In choosing RMG-4DCT scan parameters , the trade-off between gating sensitivity and scan time may be optimized , demonstrating potential for RMG-4DCT as a viable pathway to improve clinical 4DCT imaging.