 Residual renal function ( RRF) is a crucial factor that plays an important role in peritoneal dialysis ( PD) patients , but whether RRF influences the quality of life ( QOL) of PD patients is still controversial. The aims of this study were to explore the effects of RRF on QOL in patients with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD) and analyze the related factors that might affect patients ' QOL. All 120 adult patients in this study received regular CAPD<disease> treatment for at least 3 months. Patients were divided into two groups: an RRF group ( residual glomerular filtration ( rGFR) ≥ 1 mL × min-1 × ( 1.73 m2) -1) and a non-RRF group ( rGFR ≥ 1 mL × min-1 × ( 1.73 m2) -1). The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey ( SF-36) was used as a reference to calculate the scores of CAPD patients for assessing their QOL. Multiple- and single-linear regression analysis was performed to analyze correlation degree of several SF-36-related indexes. The indexes of age , gender , cause of disease , complication , body mass index ( BMI) , systolic and diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> ( SBP and DBP) , hemoglobin ( HB) , cholesterol , triglycerides , high- and low-density lipoprotein , normalized protein catabolic rate ( nPCR) , and cardiothoracic ratio ( CTR) showed no difference between the two groups ( RRF and non-RRF). Comparing with RRF group , the patients without RRF showed a significant difference on indexes of PD duration , urine volume , ultrafiltration volume , dialysis dose , serum albumin , potassium , Kt/V ( urea reduction ratio) , creatinine , calcium , phosphate , C-reactive protein ( CRP) , and parathyroid hormone ( PTH). Single-linear regression analysis that achieved total score of SF-36 showed no correlation with rGFR , but there was a correlation of SF-36 score with CRP , creatinine , CTR , albumin , and ultrafiltration volume. These results suggested that there was no correlation between RRF and QOL in CAPD patients , but chronic inflammation<symptom> , fluid overload , and malnutrition were considered as the main factors that affect patients ' QOL..