 Visual impairment is globally among the most prevalent disabilities. Research concerning the health consequences of visual deficits is challenged by confounding effects of age , because visual impairment becomes more prevalent with age. This study investigates the influence of visual deficits on visual , musculoskeletal and balance<symptom> symptoms in adults with and without visual impairment , while controlling for age effects. Thirty-nine patients with visual impairment , aged 18-72 years , were compared to 37 age-matched controls with normal vision , allocated to two age groups: < 45 and ≥ 45 years. Self-reported symptoms were measured using the Visual , Musculoskeletal and Balance<symptom> Symptoms Questionnaire and compared with demographic and optometric variables. In total , patients with visual impairment reported more symptoms than age-matched normally sighted controls. Younger adults in the control group were almost free from symptoms , whereas younger adults with visual impairment reported levels of symptoms equal to older adults with visual impairment. Multiple logistic regression modelling identified use of eyeglasses , magnifying aids and presence of anisometropia to be the most influential risk factors for reporting visual , musculoskeletal and balance<symptom> symptoms , with accentuated influence on balance<symptom> symptoms. People with visual impairments and people with age-related normal visual deficits are both predisposed to report visual , musculoskeletal and balance<symptom> symptoms relative to people without visual defects or need for eye-wear correction. Age-related variations in symptoms were observed in the control groups but not in the visual impairment groups , with younger visual impairment patients reporting as many symptoms as older visual impairment patients. These findings indicate a need for a wider interdisciplinary perspective on eye care concerning people with visual impairment and people with need for habitual daily use of eye wear correction.