 Instructing and guiding patients after surgery is essential for successful recovery. However , the time that health-care professionals can spend with their patients postoperatively has been reduced because of efficiency-driven , shortened hospital stays. We evaluated the effect of a personalised e-health-care programme on return to normal activities after surgery. A multicentre , single-blind , randomised controlled trial was done at seven teaching hospitals in the Netherlands. Patients aged 18-75 years who were scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy , inguinal hernia surgery , or laparoscopic adnexal surgery for a benign indication were recruited. An independent researcher randomly allocated participants to either the intervention or control group using computer-based randomisation lists , with stratification by sex , type of surgery , and hospital. Participants in the intervention group had access to a perioperative , personalised , e-health-care programme , which managed recovery expectations and provided postoperative guidance tailored to the patient. The control group received usual care and access to a placebo website containing standard general recovery advice. Participants were unaware of the study hypothesis and were asked to complete questionnaires at five timepoints during the 6-month period after surgery. The primary outcome was time between surgery and return to normal activities , measured using personalised patient-reported outcome measures. Intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses were done. This trial is registered in the Netherlands National Trial Register , number NTR4699. Between Aug 24 , 2015 , and Aug 12 , 2016 , 344 participants were enrolled and randomly allocated to either the intervention ( n = 173) or control ( n = 171) group. 14 participants ( 4 %) were lost to follow-up , with 330 participants included in the primary outcome analysis. Median time until return to normal activities was 21 days ( 95 % CI 17-25) in the intervention group and 26 days ( 20-32) in the control group ( hazard ratio 1 路 38 , 95 % CI 1 路 09-1 路 73; p = 0 路 007). Complications did not differ between groups. A personalised e-health intervention after abdominal surgery speeds up the return to normal activities compared with usual care. Implementation of this e-health programme is recommended in patients undergoing intermediate-grade abdominal , gynaecological , or general surgical procedures. ZonMw.