 Organizational justice refers to perceived fairness at the workplace. Individual perceptions of injustice have been linked to reduced mental and physical health. However , perceptions of injustice also exist at the aggregate level of departments , reflecting a shared perception , denoted as justice climate. There is evidence that this shared perception independently predicts individual distress levels ( e.g. , anxiety<symptom> , depression<symptom>) , which might negatively affect somatic symptom perception and reporting. Hence , the objective of this study was to examine whether individual perceptions of poor justice as well as a poor justice climate are related to elevated somatic complaints. In addition , this study examined if justice climate moderates the relationship between individual-level justice perceptions and somatic symptom reporting. Cross-sectional data from a large industrial manufacturing company was used , involving 1,102 employees in 31 departments. A validated scale covering interactional and procedural justice assessed individual-level organizational justice. A 19-item symptom checklist measured somatic complaints. Multilevel analyses estimated individual-level associations ( within-department effects) with somatic complaints , department-level associations ( between-department effects) , and the cross-level interaction of both. Individual-level justice perceptions were negatively associated with somatic complaints. Collective justice climate was likewise significantly associated with somatic complaints. There was no indication for a moderation effect of justice climate. A poor justice climate correlated positively with individual somatic complaints while controlling for individual perceptions , i.e. , above and beyond individual justice perceptions. These findings may imply that interventions targeting department-level perceptions of justice may have the potential to reduce individual somatic complaints beyond the effects of individual-level interventions.