 To examine the patterns of alcohol consumption in Hong Kong Chinese women before and after a period of major alcohol policy amendments. This study compared alcohol consumption patterns in Hong Kong Chinese women before and after a period of major alcohol policy amendments and found increased drinking among certain subgroups , particularly middle-aged women. These increases are likely due to personal factors ( e.g. changing perceptions) as well as environmental influences ( e.g. greater marketing). Cross-sectional telephone surveys were conducted on adult Chinese women prior to the 2007-2008 beer and wine tax eliminations in 2006 ( n = 4946) and in 2011 ( n = 2439). Over the study period , only women in the 36-45 year age stratum reported significant increases in all three drinking patterns: past-year drinking ( 38.1-45.2 %) , past-month binge drinking ( 2.3-5.2 %) and weekly drinking ( 4.0-7.3 %) ( P < 0.05); middle-aged women , unemployed or retired women and those ascribing to alcohol 's health benefits emerged as new binge drinking risk groups. In 2011 , 3.5 % of all drinking-aged women ( 8.8 % of past-year drinkers , 20.7 % of binge drinkers and 23.1 % of weekly drinkers) reported an increased drinking frequency after the tax policy changes. The main contexts of increased drinking were social events and with restaurant meals; moreover , beliefs of alcohol 's health benefits were common to all contexts of increased drinking. Of women who increased their drinking frequency , the largest proportion attributed it to peer effects/social environment conducive to drinking , and brand marketing/advertising influences. Increased drinking among certain subgroups of Hong Kong Chinese women may be due to combined influences of: increased societal acceptance of social drinking , aggressive marketing promotions and personal beliefs in the health benefits of drinking that have recently emerged in the region. Hence , multi-prong strategies are required to combat potential drinking harms in these women.