 Recommendations for using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ( FDG-PET) to support the diagnosis of dementing neurodegenerative disorders are sparse and poorly structured. Twenty-one questions on diagnostic issues and on semi-automated analysis to assist visual reading were defined. Literature was reviewed to assess study design , risk of bias , inconsistency , imprecision , indirectness and effect size. Critical outcomes were sensitivity , specificity , accuracy , positive/negative predictive value , area under the receiver operating characteristic curve , and positive/negative likelihood ratio of FDG-PET in detecting the target conditions. Using the Delphi method , an expert panel voted for/against the use of FDG-PET based on published evidence and expert opinion. Of the 1435 papers , 58 papers provided proper quantitative assessment of test performance. The panel agreed on recommending FDG-PET for 14 questions: diagnosing mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer 's disease ( AD) , frontotemporal lobar degeneration ( FTLD) or dementia with Lewy bodies ( DLB); diagnosing atypical AD and pseudo-dementia; differentiating between AD and DLB , FTLD or vascular dementia , between DLB and FTLD , and between Parkinson 's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy; suggesting underlying pathophysiology in corticobasal degeneration and progressive primary aphasia<symptom> , and cortical dysfunction in Parkinson 's disease; using semi-automated assessment to assist visual reading. Panellists did not support FDG-PET use for pre-clinical stages of neurodegenerative disorders , for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington disease diagnoses , and for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Huntington-disease-related cognitive decline. Despite limited formal evidence , panellists deemed FDG-PET useful in the early and differential diagnosis of the main neurodegenerative disorders , and semi-automated assessment helpful to assist visual reading. These decisions are proposed as interim recommendations.