 The monitoring of brain activity along with genital organ response to sexual stimulation can play an important role in understanding the under-lying mechanisms of sexual arousal as well as diagnosing erectile dysfunction. Several studies have observed brain activity corresponding to sexual stimuli , but only a few studies have shown a simultaneous measurement of brain activation and penile response. To introduce near-infrared spectroscopy ( NIRS) as a portable , easily implemented , and low-cost technique to simultaneously record brain activity and hemodynamics in the genital organ during sexual arousal. Hemodynamic measurements of 15 healthy men were obtained using a home-built NIRS system. In the initial experiment , hemodynamics in the pre-frontal cortex ( N = 10) were measured during visual sexual stimulation ( VSS) and neutral visual stimulation ( NVS) to identify brain activity related to sexual arousal. In the subsequent experiment , cerebral and penile hemodynamics were simultaneously measured ( N = 5) using NIRS during VSS and NVS. The pre-frontal cortex showed activity related to VSS but not to NVS. Simultaneous measurements showed a corresponding increase of penile oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin concentration indicating an increase of blood volume associated with sexual arousal in healthy men. An average response delay of 4 seconds was observed in the hemodynamic changes between the brain and genital organ. In this preliminary study , we presented a NIRS system capable not only of detecting cerebral hemodynamic changes related to sexual arousal but also the simultaneous measurement of penile hemodynamics. We believe the NIRS system can be a potential technique to supplement the field of sexual medicine and can be expanded further to diagnose erectile dysfunction. Kim E , Kim S , Zephaniah P , et al.. Simultaneous Monitoring of Hemodynamic Response in the Pre-Frontal Cortex and Genital Organ During Sexual Arousal Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy. Sex Med 2018; XX: XXX-XXX.