 Allied health care professionals can contribute meaningfully to goals-of-care discussions with seriously ill hospitalized patients and their families. We sought to explore the perspective of hospital-based allied health care professionals on their role in goals-of-care discussions and to identify barriers to their participation. We surveyed allied health care professionals ( social workers , physiotherapists , occupational therapists , registered dietitians , speech-language pathologists and pharmacists) on internal medicine , hematology-oncology , medical oncology and radiation oncology wards at 2 tertiary care hospitals in Hamilton , Ontario , from April 2013 to May 2014. We modified a validated questionnaire originally designed to assess barriers to discussing goals of care from the perspective of nurses , residents and staff physicians on hospital medical wards. Respondents rated the questionnaire items on a 7-point Likert scale. Of the 47 allied health care professionals invited , 32 ( 68 %) participated: 9 physiotherapists , 7 social workers , 6 occupational therapists , 4 registered dietitians , 3 pharmacists and 2 speech-language pathologists; in 1 case , the profession was unknown. The greatest perceived barriers to engaging in goals-of-care discussions were lack of patient decision-making capacity ( mean rating 5.9 ( standard error ( SE) 0.3)) , lack of awareness of patients ' previous discussions with other team members ( mean rating 5.7 ( SE 0.3)) and family members ' difficulty accepting a poor prognosis ( mean rating 5.6 ( SE 0.2)). Although the respondents felt it was most acceptable for staff physicians , residents and advanced practice nurses to exchange information and reach a final decision during goals-of-care discussions , they felt it was acceptable for a broader range of allied health care professionals to initiate discussions ( mean rating 4.7-5.8) and to act as decision coaches ( clarifying values , weighing options) with patients and families ( mean rating 5.3-6.1). Allied health care professionals are willing to initiate goals-of-care discussions and to act as a decision coach with seriously ill hospitalized patients and their families. By improving interprofessional collaboration , we can engage the entire health care team in this process.