 Exposure to inorganic arsenic ( As) from drinking water is associated with modest deficits in intellectual function in young children; it is unclear whether deficits occur during adolescence , when key brain functions are more fully developed. We sought to determine the degree to which As exposure is associated with adolescent intelligence , and the contributory roles of lead , cadmium , manganese and selenium. We recruited a cross-section of 726 14-16 year olds ( mean age = 14.8 years) whose mothers are participants in the Bangladesh Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study ( HEALS) , and whose household well water As levels , which varied widely , were well characterized. Using a culturally modified version of the WISC-IV , we examined raw Full Scale scores , and Verbal Comprehension , Perceptual Reasoning , Working Memory and Processing Speed Indices. Blood levels of As ( BAs) , Mn , Pb , Cd and Se were assessed at the time of the visit , as was creatinine-adjusted urinary As ( UAs/Cr). Linear regression analyses revealed that BAs was significantly negatively associated with all WISC-IV scores except for Perceptual Reasoning. With UAs/Cr as the exposure variable , we observed significantly negative associations for all WISC-IV scores. Except for Se , blood levels of other metals , were also associated with lower WISC-IV scores. Controlling for covariates , doubling BAs , or UAs/Cr , was associated with a mean decrement ( 95 % CI) of 3.3 ( 1.1 , 5.5) , or 3.0 ( 1.2 , 4.5) points , respectively , in raw Full scale scores with a sample mean of 177.6 ( SD = 36.8). Confirmatory analyses using Bayesian Kernel Machine Regression , which identifies important mixture members , supported these findings; the primary contributor of the mixture was BAs , followed by BCd. Our data indicate that the adverse consequences of As exposure on neurodevelopment observed in other cross-sectional studies of younger children are also apparent during adolescence. They also implicate Cd as a neurotoxic element that deserves more attention.