 The management of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM) is complex. The aim of this work is to explore factors that predict the need for add-on therapy in patients with T2DM in the community. We accessed longitudinal , pharmacy payment claim records from the national Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme ( PBS) ( Subsidises costs of medicines: government pays difference between patient co-payments , lower in concessional patients , and additional cost of drug.) for the period January 2006 to September 2014 ( EREC/MI3127) from a 10 % random sample of the Australian population validated to be representative of the population by the Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS). Likely , T2DM patients were identified as those having been dispensed a single anti-hyperglycaemic drug ( monotherapy). The time taken and possible factors that might lead to the addition of a second therapy were examined. An examination was made of trends in the co-prescription of either antihypertensive or anti-hyperlipidaemic agents in relation to the time ( ± 3 years) of initiating an anti-hyperglycaemic agent. Most ( 83 %) presumed T2DM patients were initiated with metformin. The average time until the second agent was added was 4.8 years ( 95 % CI 4.7-4.9). Satisfactory adherence , age , male gender , initiating therapy after 2012 and initiating with a sulphonylurea drug all were significant risks for add-on therapy. There was no overall trend in the initiation of antihypertensive and/or anti-hyperlipidaemic agents with respect to the time of anti-hyperglycaemic initiation. The usefulness of a longitudinal dataset of pharmacy-claim records is demonstrated. Over half of all older and socioeconmically disadvantaged T2DM patients captured in this longitudinal claims database will be prescribed a second anti-hyperglycaemic agent within 5 years of their first drug therapy. Several factors can predict the risk of prescription of add-on therapy , and these should be considered when prescribing medications to treat T2DM.