 Young stock rearing is an essential part of dairy management , and it is important that the quality of rearing can be monitored and altered if necessary. In this study , a young stock rearing quality system ( KalfOK) was developed with the aim to provide an objective and standardized means to evaluate and monitor the quality of young stock rearing in Dutch dairy herds. In the project , 201 dairy farmers participated. Twelve key indicators were defined that were related to calving and successful rearing , antimicrobial use , and herd health. For each of the key indicators , the value was calculated per herd and quarter of the year between January 2014 and April 2017. Benchmark values were determined to compare herd-specific results and for selection of threshold values. Each of the key indicators was graded when the value scored above the threshold. Combining the grades resulted in the herd specific KalfOK score , which could vary between 0 and 100. Subsequently , 100 of the participating dairy herds were visited and the quality of young stock rearing was scored by a trained veterinarian. Using principal component analysis , the results of the herd health checks were combined into a factor score that represented the observed quality of young stock rearing during the visit. The amount of variance in observed quality of rearing during the herd health check that was explained by the key indicators in KalfOK was evaluated. Additionally , the validity of KalfOK to distinguish herds with an excellent or insufficient quality of young stock rearing was assessed by comparing the top and bottom 10 % herds in the herd health check with the proportion of herds with a KalfOK score above or below a prespecified cutoff value. The results of the linear regression model showed that the key indicators included in KalfOK accounted for 56 % of the variation in the score of the herd visits by a veterinarian. The moving average of the annual KalfOK score , which was the sum of the grades of all key indicators , was 77 points ( 25th percentile = 71 , 75th percentile = 85 points). The combination of the sensitivity ( 88 % , 95 % confidence interval = 47-100 %) and specificity ( 67 % , 95 % confidence interval = 54-78 %) of KalfOK to correctly classify herds with an excellent quality of young stock rearing was highest when a cutoff value of 80 points was applied. Detection of dairy herds with an insufficient quality of young stock rearing was best at a cutoff value of 70 points ( sensitivity 86 % , 95 % confidence interval = 42-100 %; specificity 77 % , 95 % confidence interval = 66-86 %). The KalfOK score that was based on routinely collected herd data provided an indication of the quality of young stock rearing in individual Dutch dairy farms. The KalfOK score illustrates how such data can be transferred into herd-specific information in support of animal health and welfare. Given the increasing availability of automatically assembled data , the development of similar monitoring tools seems a feasible option to enhance herd-specific management.