 Prolactinoma is the most common subtype of functional pituitary adenoma. Effective therapy is required for women of child-bearing age to achieve remission at serum prolactin level and regain reproductive function. To evaluate long-term outcomes , including menstrual recovery , after transsphenoidal surgery on female prolactinoma patients by experienced neurosurgeons. Observational study. Consecutive female prolactinoma patients aged from 16 to 45 years were included. Histological analysis after surgery revealed adenoma with positive staining for prolactin. Plurihormonal cell adenomas were excluded. Clinical manifestations , surgical indications , serum prolactin level before and after surgery , surgical complications , pituitary fuctions , drug maintenance , the status of menstruation , and pregnancy. Sixty-three consecutive female patients with a mean age of 29.5 ± 1.1 years were included. Based on magnetic resonance imaging findings before surgery , 31 ( 49.2 %) patients had microadenoma , and the remaining 32 ( 50.8 %) had macroadenoma. The median follow-up after transsphenoidal surgery was 53 ( 33-74) months , and long-term surgical remission was achieved in 50 ( 79.37 %) patients with 28 ( 90.32 %) microadenomas and 22 ( 68.75 %) macroadenomas. No meningitis<disease><symptom> or persistent cerebrospinal fluid leaks occurred. Only one case suffered from persistent diabetes insipidus at follow-up. No severe pituitary dysfunction was observed in microprolactinoma patients. Of patients with menstrual disorders , 85 % regained regular menstrual cycles after surgery. Nineteen patients in this cohort desired pregnancy and 15 of them successfully gave birth after surgery. All 17 microadenoma patients with modern surgical indications achieved normal prolactin levels and regular menstrual cycles with only one patient on drug therapy at follow-up. Long-term follow-up showed a high remission rate in female prolactinoma patients , especially in microadenoma patients , after surgery. Transsphenoidal surgery performed by experienced neurosurgeons may offer a valuable approach to treat female microprolactinoma patients of child-bearing age with modern indications for surgery.