 Tardigrades are a key group for understanding the evolution of the Ecdysozoa , a large clade of molting animals that also includes arthropods and nematodes. However , little is known about most aspects of their basic biology. Neuropeptide and peptide hormone signaling has been extensively studied in arthropods and nematodes ( particularly regarding their roles in molting in arthropods) , but very little is known about neuropeptide signaling in other ecdysozoans. In this work , different strategies were used to search for neuropeptide and peptide hormone precursors in the genomes of the tardigrades Hypsibius dujardini and Ramazzottius varieornatus. In general , there is a remarkable similarity in the complement of neuropeptides and their sequences between tardigrades and arthropods. The precursors found in tardigrades included homologs of achatin , allatostatins A , B and C , allatotropin , calcitonin , CCHamide , CCRFa , corazonin , crustacean cardioactive peptide , diuretic hormone 31 , diuretic hormone 44 , ecdysis triggering hormone , eclosion hormone , gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( GnRH) , GSEFLamide , insulin-like peptides , ion transport peptide , kinin , neuropeptide F , orcokinin , pigment dispersing hormone , proctolin , pyrokinin , RYamide , short neuropeptide F , sulfakinin , tachykinin , trissin and vasopressin. In most cases , homologs of known cognate receptors for each neuropeptide family could only be identified when the precursors were also present in the genome , further supporting their identification. Some neuropeptide precursor genes have undergone several duplications in tardigrades , including allatostatin A and C , corazonin , GnRH , eclosion hormone , sulfakinin and trissin. Furthermore , four novel families of candidate neuropeptide precursors were identified ( two of which could also be found in several arthropods). To the best of my knowledge , this work represents the first genome-wide search for neuropeptide precursors in any ecdysozoan species outside arthropods and nematodes , and is a necessary first step towards understanding neuropeptide function in tardigrades.