 The complete mitochondrial genome is greatly important for studies on genetic structure and phylogenetic relationship at various taxonomic levels. To obtain information about the evolutionary trends of mtDNA in the Ulvophyceae and also to gain insights into the phylogenetic relationships between ulvophytes and other chlorophytes , we determined the mtDNA sequence of Caulerpa lentillifera ( sea grape) using de novo mitochondrial genome sequencing. The complete genomic DNA of C. lentillifera was circular and 209,034 bp in length , and it was the largest green-algal mitochondrial genome sequenced to date , with a low gene density of 65.2 % , which is reminiscent of the `` expanded '' pattern of evolution exhibited by embryophyte mtDNAs. The C. lentillifera mtDNA consisted of a typical set of 17 protein-coding genes ( PCGs) , 20 transfer RNA ( tRNA) genes , three ribosomal RNA ( rRNA) genes , 42 putative open reading frames ( ORFs) and 29 introns , which had homologs in green-algal mtDNAs displaying an `` ancestral '' or a `` reduced-derived '' pattern of evolution. The overall base composition of its mitochondrial genome was 24.19 % for A , 24.94 % for T , 25.80 % for G , 25.07 % for C and 50.87 % for GC. The mitochondrial genome of C. lentillifera was characterized by numerous small intergenic regions and introns , which was clearly different from other green algae<pathogen>. With the exception of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 ( ND6) , ND1 , ATP and three tRNA genes ( tRNA-His , tRNA-Thr and tRNA-Ala) , all other mitochondrial genes were encoded on the heavy strand. All of the PCGs had ATG as their start codon and employed TAA , TGA or TAG as their termination codon. To gain insights into the evolutionary trends of mtDNA in the Ulvophyceae , we inferred the complete mtDNA sequence of C. lentillifera , an ulvophyte belonging to a distinct , early-diverging lineage. Taken together , our data offered useful information for the studies on phylogenetic hypotheses and phylogenetic relationships of C. lentillifera within the Chlorophyta.