 This is a Retrospective descriptive study. Orthoses and walking aids are used frequently in stroke rehabilitation to facilitate ambulation. The aim was to describe the regularity of orthosis use and the reasons for disuse in stroke after discharge from inpatient rehabilitation. The study included 64 ( 43 men , 21 women) subacute stroke patients who had been discharged from our clinic in the last 6 months. Demographic and clinical findings , proposed orthoses and walking aids , frequency of usage for the proposed orthoses , reasons for disuse , and the ambulation levels were recorded. A total of 54 ( 84.4 %) patients had an ankle-foot orthosis and 10 ( 15.6 %) patients had a knee-ankle-foot orthosis. The orthosis frequency of use was every day in 38 ( 59.4 %) patients and one to seven times a week in seven ( 10.9 %) patients , whereas 19 ( 29.7 %) did not use them. The reasons for orthosis disuse were finding them unnecessary in seven ( 27 %) patients , usage difficulties in six ( 23 %) patients , pressure sensation in five ( 19.2 %) patients , the belief that they did not make life easier in five ( 19.2 %) patients , lack of a suitable environment in one ( 3.8 %) patient , orthosis wear in one ( 3.8 %) patient , and systemic<disease> disease<disease> in one ( 3.8 %) patient. Age , sex , residence , the disease duration , and recommended orthosis duration ( how long the prescribed orthosis was used) , recommended orthosis , range of motion limitation in the lower extremities , presence of spasticity , type of orthosis , and the ambulation level were not statistically significantly associated with the frequency of orthosis use ( P > 0.05). The only significant clinical factor for the frequency of orthosis use was the lower extremity Brunnstrom neurophysiological recovery stage ( P < 0.008). Orthosis use had been discontinued by 29 % of the patients. The most common reasons reported for discontinuing orthosis use were that the patients found it unnecessary , usage difficulty , pressure sensation , not making life easier , lack of a suitable environment , and orthosis wear. The only significant clinical factor for the frequency of orthosis use was the lower extremity Brunnstrom neurophysiological recovery stage.