 The uncertainty regarding the scientific status of psychiatry arises from psychiatry 's involvement with some unsolved problems , or put in another way , from its enmeshment in certain points of transition of contemporary science. There is , in primis , the unsolved problem of the relationship between the mind and the body and , moreo- ver , the intricate relationship of connection/disjunction among biology , social science , anthropology , philosophy , etc.. To speak about what psychopathology can expect from philosophy is , above all , to immerse oneself in a debate about the conditions of possibility of psychiatry as a science. This debate is especially concerned with the models of knowledge that have , until now , been proposed to psychiatry. Those models oscillate between the Dilthey 's paradigms of the `` Science of Nature '' and the `` Science of Spirit ''. It is certain that psychopathology , as already indicated by Jaspers , is a discipline which is among the most involved regard- ing the use of the two different cognitive strategies. The first strategy concerns the concept of `` explanation '' and its rigid approach to the objective and ultimate cause of the phenomenon. The second strategy is the `` comprehensive '' approach. This model , which the hermeneutic thought defines `` interpretative '' , theorizes the provisional character , the subjectiveness and the finiteness of every cognitive project. The interest of the authors is orientated towards the hermeneutic side ( comprehensive-interpretative) of psychiatry , that which deals with the specificity of every clinical history , with the continuity of sense , and with intrinsic narrative intelligibility of every human event , psychopathological or not. This approach to psychopathology is based on the statement: `` a clinical history is a text which must be interpreted ''. From this perspective , every clinical history should be perceived as a text to decipher but , above all , as a `` text '' to listen to , in the persevering expectation that it could disclose its particular `` project of world ''. When speaking about psychiatry , we always face a problem which dominates all the others: the unsolved problem of the relation- ship between typicalness and singularity of subjective events. B.B. Mandelbrot , theorist of `` fractals '' , sums this dilemma up clearly. He suggests that the innumerable variety of the configurations of Nature is a challenge to investigate the morphology of that which is `` irregu- lar '' in order to discover in it , as far as possible , a rule.