 Annona species ( Annonaceae) have long been used as traditional herbal medicines by native peoples in tropical areas. In different countries they are used against a large variety of illnesses , such as parasitic and infectious<disease> diseases<disease> , cancer , diabetes , peptic ulcers<disease><symptom> , and mental disorders. This review aims to achieve a comprehensive understanding of the research conducted so far on the local and traditional uses , pharmacological activities , mechanism of actions of active compounds , toxicity , and possible interactions with other drugs of the Annona species. Through analysis of these findings , evidences supporting their applications in ethno-medicines are described. We discuss the possible research opportunities and stand out the weak points in our knowledge that deserves further investigation. Information on ethno-medicinal uses and pharmacological activities of the Annona genus was collected. The main scientific biomedical literature databases ( Cochrane , PubMed , Scopus , Lilacs , SeCiMed , Elsevier , SpringerLink , Google Scholar , SciFinder) were consulted. The search covered all the literature available until September 2017. National and regional databases of Herbal Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Medicine were also revised in order to explore further data. For a better understanding of the therapeutic importance of these species , we have classified the pharmacological activities within each group of disorders. The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD) , used from WHO Member States , was chosen as the reference classification. From among the 27 species revised , four species are highlighted for their important pharmacological activities in most of the groups of illnesses: A. muricata , A. squamosa , A. senegalensis<pathogen> , and A. cherimola. Many investigations have been performed with extracts from the leaves , bark , fruit and seeds and have shown a wide range of pharmacological activities , such as antiprotozoal , antitumoural , antidiabetic , hepato-protective , anti-inflammatory and anxiolytic activities. The chemistry on the annonaceous acetogenins ( ACGs) has been extensively investigated due to their potent antitumoural activity. Many of the assays were carried out with the isolated acetogenins in different lines of tumour culture cells and were found effective at very low doses even in multidrug-resistant tumours , and hence constitute promising compounds in the treatment of different types of cancers. No studies were found with extracts rich in acetogenins in the clinical field. The experimental results from the pharmacological research enable the validation of their traditional uses in several of the groups of diseases in the countries of origin and reveal these plants to be a valuable source for therapeutic molecules. However , more toxicity assays and clinical trials would be necessary to establish optimal and safe doses of consumption on the application of these medicinal plants.