 To determine the proportions of eyes with indiscernible Bruch 's membrane opening ( BMO) in glaucoma patients and healthy individuals with and without high myopia and to investigate factors contributing to indiscernible BMO. Cross-sectional study. Five hundred eyes from 315 participants , including 212 high myopic eyes ( axial length ( AL) , ≥ 26 mm) from 80 glaucoma patients and 60 healthy individuals and 288 non-high myopic eyes ( AL , < 26 mm) from 96 glaucoma patients and 88 healthy individuals. The optic disc was imaged by the Spectralis OCT ( Heidelberg Engineering , Heidelberg , Germany) using 24 equally spaced radial B-scans. The BMO was located independently by 2 trained observers and was recorded as discernible or indiscernible over 48 meridians in each eye. The BMO of a meridian was determined to be indiscernible when both observers failed to identify its location. The agreement between the observers was evaluated with κ statistics. Factors associated with indiscernible BMO were identified with multivariable , multilevel logistic regression modeling. Proportions of eyes with indiscernible BMO and hazard ratios ( HRs) of factors associated with indiscernible BMO. The agreement for assessment of BMO visibility between the observers was good ( κ , 0.631; 95 % confidence interval , 0.602-0.661). In the groups with and without high myopia , 32.1 % and 8.2 % of glaucomatous eyes had 1 or more meridians with indiscernible BMO , respectively. In the healthy eyes , the respective proportions were 28.0 % and 3.9 %. The proportions were significantly higher in eyes with high myopia compared to eyes without high myopia in the glaucoma group ( P < 0.001) and the healthy group ( P < 0.001). The temporal meridian , followed by the inferotemporal and superotemporal meridians , of the optic disc were the most frequent locations with indiscernible BMO. Increased AL , advanced glaucoma , β parapapillary atrophy , and young age were associated with an increased HR of indiscernible BMO ( P ≤ 0.032). A significant proportion of high myopic eyes have indiscernible BMO at the temporal , superotemporal , and inferotemporal meridians of the optic disc , which may compromise the measurement of neuroretinal rim in the diagnostic evaluation of glaucoma.