 Data sourcesCochrane Oral Health Trials Register , Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL) , Medline Ovid , Embase Ovid , ProQuest Dissertations and Theses , Zetoc , ISI Web of Knowledge , US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register ClinicalTrials.gov , and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for ongoing trials up to June 2016. Study selectionRandomised controlled trials , split-mouth trials and cluster-randomised trials comparing laser ablation to drill removal of caries<disease> with no restriction in language or participants ' age.Data extraction and synthesisStudies were selected and reviewed independently by two reviewers and standard data items extracted. The reviewers assessed the risk of bias of all studies using Cochrane 's ` Risk of bias ' tool. For all dichotomous outcomes , risk ratios ( RR) with 95 % of confidence intervals ( CI) were calculated , and mean difference ( MD) was calculated for continuous data. Primary outcomes were effectiveness in caries<disease> excavation and reports of pain. Data were combined using random-effects models. Main results for caries<disease> removal were summarised and presented using GRADE proGDT software. Meta-analyses were performed on studies that reported quantitative data.ResultsSix split-mouth randomised controlled trials and three parallel-group randomised trials involving 1,498 primary and permanent teeth from 662 participants ranging from 3.5 to 84 years old were included. Seven hundred and seventy-seven teeth were treated with laser only , 732 with mechanical drills only , and 12 teeth were treated with both techniques in the same tooth on separate caries.Only four studies evaluated caries<disease> removal. Of those four , only two reported quantitative data. After meta-analysis , the results showed no significant difference in effectiveness of caries<disease> removal between the two treatment methods ( ( RR) 1.00 , 95 % ( CI) 0.99 to 1.01). Of the five studies that assessed pain , three studies using five-point or six-point pain scale reported less pain experienced using laser. Two studies did not provide complete data for analysis. As for the secondary outcomes of marginal integrity of restorations ( three studies) , durability ( four studies) , recurrent caries<disease> ( two studies) , pulpal inflammation<symptom> or necrosis<symptom> ( four studies) , overall results showed no evidence of a difference. When considering the need for anaesthesia ( four studies) , and participant discomfort ( five studies) , the overall results showed that the need for anaesthesia and participant discomfort was lower with the laser treatment. Interestingly , the one study that reported operator preference showed that dentists preferred conventional preparation method over laser ( P < 0.001). ConclusionsThere was insufficient evidence to show that laser removal of caries<disease> was more or less efficient than traditional mechanical technique. However , there was some low quality evidence in favour of laser therapy for pain control , need for anaesthesia and patient comfort.