 A source of insecurity among new physicians and new nurses is communicating and managing acute changes in patient condition. Mock page programs are an effective method for teaching communication and clinical decision-making skills to medical students. Joint participation in a mock page program provides a unique opportunity for medical and nursing students to practice communication , collaboration , and clinical decision-making in a low-risk learning environment. The purpose of this pilot study was to examine attitudes toward communication and collaboration among medical and nursing students after participation in a mock page program. Twenty-four medical students participating in a surgical residency preparatory course were paired with 24 senior level nursing students. Over a period of 3 weeks , nursing students delivered 5 mock pages to the medical students. Mock pages consisted of peer-reviewed , prescripted scenarios depicting patients experiencing common postoperative complications. A 12-question survey measuring attitudes toward communication and collaboration between physicians and nurses was administered prior to delivery of the first page and after delivery of the last page. A dependent sample t test was used to perform item analysis. Individual item analysis of medical student surveys indicated significant improvement in attitudes toward communication and collaboration with nurses in 12 out of 12 survey items ( p < 0.05). Individual item analysis of nursing student surveys indicated significant improvement in attitudes toward communication and collaboration with physicians in 6 out of 10 survey items ( p < 0.05). There was no decline in attitudes among any of the survey items. The results from this study suggest that an interprofessional mock page program improves attitudes toward communication and collaboration between medical and nursing students. This program has the potential to improve the quality of education and increase confidence among medical and nursing students as they prepare for their professional roles.