 Numerous researchers have examined the serious consequences of food insecurity and food deserts affecting the nutritional health of poor or low-income African-American women and their families. Food insecurity is defined as having limited or uncertain capacityfor acquiring sufficient , safe , and nutritious food at all times to meet one 's dietary needs , while food deserts refer to economically and socially-deprived inner city areas with inadequate food supply that are often inhabited by low-income groups. Researchers have found that despite the capacity of community-level resources such as SNAP ( Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) and WIC ( Women , Infants , and Children) supporting healthy nutrition , food insecurity persists among some recipients of both nutritional resources. Both food insecurity and food deserts had a negative effect on the emotional eating , emotional coping , coping strategies , and depressive symptoms in low-income African-American women. Even more concerning is that food deserts have been linked to decreased physical activity in low-income African-American women. Neighborhoods with fewer food supermarkets in which to purchase fresh produce and other healthy nutritious foods also emphasized junk food displays. Thus , neighborhoods with persons that have powerful influences ( e.g. , local merchants and community liaisons) must bear responsibility to help eliminate food deserts that were linked to obesity , high BMI measures , and Type 2 diabetes in African-American women. Food inse- curity was viewed from the lens of the World Health Organization- Community Empowerment Model ( CEM) that incorporates 5 core processes or barometers for change: community coalitions , critical consciousness<symptom> raising , exerting public pressure , lobbying , advocacy and mediation , and reframing and reorienting health services. Each of the processes plays a powerful role in assisting communities in taking charge of their health and assuming responsibility for improving access to healthy nutritious foods and eliminating food deserts in low-income communities. The implications of change and community involvement rely on all persons with a vested interest in address- ing the disturbing problem offood insecurity and food deserts affecting the nutritional health and well-being of African-American communities.