 While overt thyroid disease is a well-known risk factor for infertility<symptom> , the potential consequences of mild thyroid dysfunction or thyroid autoimmunity remain unknown. While experimental studies suggest a considerable role for thyroid hormone in the physiological mechanisms of ovarian reserve , translation of such findings to studies in humans remains sparse. A potential role for thyroid function in female reproduction is especially relevant when the cause of infertility<symptom> remains unknown , such as in women with diminished ovarian reserve ( DOR) or unexplained infertility<symptom>. To study the association of thyroid function and autoimmunity with markers of ovarian reserve day 3 follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH) concentrations and antral follicle count ( AFC) , and to investigate if thyroid function or autoimmunity may have different effects in women with DOR or unexplained infertility<symptom>. We measured TSH , FT4 , T4 , FT3 , T3 , TPO-antibodies ( TPOAbs) and thyroglobulinantibodies ( TgAbs) as well as AFC and the day 3 FSH concentration among women seeking fertility treatment at the Massachusetts General Hospital Fertility Center. We used multiple linear or mixed regression models to study the association of thyroid function or autoimmunity with AFC or day 3 FSH. In the total study population ( 436 women , 530 AFC measurements) , there was no association of thyroid function or TPOAb positivity with AFC. However , TgAb positivity was associated with a higher AFC ( mean difference ( 95 % CI): 3.4 ( 1.8 to 5.1) , P < 0.001). In women with DOR or unexplained infertility<symptom> , lower FT3 and TPOAb positivity , was associated with a lower AFC ( FT3: continuous non-linear association , P = 0.009; TPOAb positivity: -2.3 follicles ( -3.8 to -0.5) , P = 0.01) while TgAb positivity was not associated with AFC. Neither thyroid function nor thyroid antibody positivity was associated with the day 3 FSH concentration. We found that lower FT3 and TPOAb positivity is associated with a lower AFC in women with diminished ovarian reserve or unexplained infertility<symptom>. Future studies are required to replicate these findings and further elucidate the role of TgAbs and underlying mechanisms through which thyroid function and autoimmunity is associated with ovarian reserve.