 A substantial proportion of individuals involved with the North American criminal justice system are convicted for drug-related activities. Drug treatment court ( DTC) programs were developed as an alternative to incarceration for drug-related offences and aim to prioritize addiction treatment and improve health and social outcomes; however , only a fraction of DTC participants have access to first-line medications for opioid use disorder ( OUD). Further , despite emerging evidence for the efficacy of injectable opioid agonist therapy ( OAT) in treating individuals with severe OUD where past treatment attempts with first-line therapies have been unsuccessful , this treatment has never , to our knowledge , been implemented in correctional settings. An individual in their 50s with a history of severe OUD , multiple interactions with the criminal justice system , and prior unsuccessful treatment attempts with methadone was initiated on injectable treatment with diacetylmorphine. The patient received 300 mg of diacetylmorphine witnessed three times daily at a supervised injection clinic. During a 1.5-year stabilization phase , the patient 's illicit opioid use significantly reduced. They subsequently enrolled in a DTC program for drug-related charges preceding initiation on injectable OAT and remained on this therapy during 16-months in DTC. Following graduation from DTC , the patient continued to receive treatment and returned to gainful employment in the community , with no further charges or episodes of incarceration. This case describes the successful completion of a DTC program by an individual prescribed injectable OAT for severe OUD. The patient 's treatment plan played an integral role in DTC graduation and long-term adherence , leading to improved health and social outcomes including cessation of illicit drug use , enhanced quality of life and improved social functioning. The case highlights the potential benefits of a stepped and integrated approach to addiction treatment in DTC programs.