 Cell-free protein synthesis ( CFPS) is a widely used research tool in systems and synthetic biology. However , if CFPS is to become a mainstream technology for applications such as point of care manufacturing , we must understand the performance limits and costs of these systems. Toward this question , we used sequence specific constraint based modeling to evaluate the performance of E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> cell-free protein synthesis. A core E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> metabolic network , describing glycolysis , the pentose phosphate pathway , energy metabolism , amino acid biosynthesis , and degradation was augmented with sequence specific descriptions of transcription and translation and effective models of promoter function. Model parameters were largely taken from literature; thus the constraint based approach coupled the transcription and translation of the protein product , and the regulation of gene expression , with the availability of metabolic resources using only a limited number of adjustable model parameters. We tested this approach by simulating the expression of two model proteins: chloramphenicol acetyltransferase and dual emission green fluorescent protein , for which we have data sets; we then expanded the simulations to a range of additional proteins. Protein expression simulations were consistent with measurements for a variety of cases. The constraint based simulations confirmed that oxidative phosphorylation was active in the CAT cell-free extract , as without it there was no feasible solution within the experimental constraints of the system. We then compared the metabolism of theoretically optimal and experimentally constrained CFPS reactions , and developed parameter free correlations which could be used to estimate productivity as a function of carbon number and promoter type. Lastly , global sensitivity analysis identified the key metabolic processes that controlled CFPS productivity and energy efficiency. In summary , sequence specific constraint based modeling of CFPS offered a novel means to a priori estimate the performance of a cell-free system , using only a limited number of adjustable parameters. While we modeled the production of a single protein in this study , the approach could easily be extended to multiprotein synthetic circuits , RNA circuits , or the cell-free production of small molecule products.