 Grafting is a widely used technique , and graft compatibility between the rootstock and scion is a prerequisite for grafting. To date , the underlying causes of graft compatibility/incompatibility remain largely unknown. Here , using cucumber ( Cucumis sativus L.) grafted onto pumpkin ( Cucurbita L.) rootstocks with different degrees of graft compatibility , and both self-grafting and non-grafting as controls , an integrative analysis of mRNA and miRNA expression and regulatory networks was conducted by using RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq at 25 days after grafting ( DAG). A total of 223 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) and 30 differentially expressed miRNAs ( DEMs) related to graft compatibility were identified based on their fold change. Using a combination of GO annotations and KEGG pathway data , the functional annotations and pathways of DEGs and DEM targets showed that a number of metabolic , physiological and hormonal responses are involved in graft compatibility in cucumber leaves including metabolic processes ( e.g. , `` carbohydrate metabolic processes '') , nutrient transport ( e.g. , `` sugar transport '') , signal transduction ( e.g. , `` MAPK cascade '') , plant hormone signal transduction ( e.g. , `` abscisic acid-activated signaling pathway '') , transcription factors ( e.g. , MYB , NAC and bHLH) , oxidation-reduction processes , and defense responses. The results of our comprehensive analysis suggested that compatible rootstocks might possess a greater ability for cell proliferation and a more efficient carbohydrate metabolism that promotes plant growth. In contrast , incompatible grafts induced multiple defense response-related genes and various transcription factors , likely in response to stress. Additionally , they consumed large amounts of energy , which ultimately restrained the plants normal development. This study advances our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying plant graft compatible/incompatible responses and provides numerous mRNA and miRNA candidates for more in-depth studies into the graft compatibility process.