 To evaluate the diagnostic value of MR-derived CT-like images and simulated radiographs compared with conventional radiographs in patients with benign and malignant bone tumors. In 32 patients with a benign or malignant bone lesion<symptom> ( mean age 33.9 ± 18.5 years , 17 females) , 3-T MR imaging was performed including a 3D T1-weighted gradient echo sequence as the basis for the CT-like images. From these , intensity-inverted MR image volumes were converted into 2D images via a forward projection to obtain simulated radiographs. Two radiologists assessed these images as well as conventional radiographs for the type of periosteal reaction , matrix mineralization and destruction pattern. Agreement between the modalities was calculated using Cohen 's κ. The agreement between conventional radiographs and MR-derived CT-like images in combination with simulated radiographs was substantial ( periosteal reaction , κ = 0.67; destruction pattern , κ = 0.75) , and the sensitivity of both modalities for the final diagnosis of the lesion<symptom> ( aggressive vs. nonaggressive) was high ( MR-derived CT-like images , 86.2 % vs. conventional radiographs , 90.0 %). Additional information on soft<disease> tissue extension ( MR-derived CT-like images , 21.9 % vs. conventional radiographs , 12.5 %; p = 0.009) and lobulation ( 9.4 % vs. 0 %; p < 0.001) was significantly more often found on MR-derived CT-like images compared with conventional radiographs. The assessment of the destruction patterns , periosteal reaction and distinction between aggressive and nonaggressive tumors was feasible using MR-derived CT-like images and simulated radiographs and is comparable to that of conventional radiographs. Moreover , MR-derived CT-like images provided additional information on soft<disease> tissue extension and tumor architecture. • CT-like images and simulated radiographs can be generated from 3D MRI. • Evaluation of bone tumors is feasible with MR-derived images. • CT-like images and simulated radiographs provide additional information on bone tumors.