 Michigan 's approach to Medicaid expansion , the Healthy Michigan Plan ( HMP) , emphasizes primary care , prevention , and incentives for patients and primary care practitioners ( PCPs). Assess PCPs ' perspectives about the impact of HMP on their patients and practices. In 2014-2015 , we conducted semi-structured interviews then a statewide survey of PCPs. Interviewees came from varied types of practices in five Michigan regions selected for racial/ethnic diversity and a mix of rural and urban settings. Surveys were sent via mail. Interviewees were physician ( n = 16) and non-physician practitioners ( n = 3). All Michigan PCPs caring for ≥ 12 HMP enrollees were surveyed ( response rate 55.5 % , N = 2104). PCPs ' experiences with HMP patients and recent changes in their practices. Interviews include examples of the impact of Medicaid expansion on patients and practices. A majority of surveyed PCPs reported recent increases in new patients ( 52.3 %) and patients who had not seen a PCP in many years ( 56.2 %). For previously uninsured patients , PCPs reported positive impact on control of chronic conditions ( 74.4 %) , early detection of serious illness ( 71.1 %) , medication adherence ( 69.1 %) , health behaviors ( 56.5 %) , emotional well-being ( 57.0 %) , and the ability to work , attend school , or live independently ( 41.5 %). HMP patients reportedly still had more difficulty than privately insured patients accessing some services. Most PCPs reported that their practices had , in the past year , hired clinicians ( 53.2 %) and/or staff ( 57.5 %); 15.4 % had colocated mental health care. Few ( 15.8 %) reported established patients ' access to urgent appointments worsened. PCP reports of patient experiences may not be accurate. Results reflect the experiences of PCPs with ≥ 12 Medicaid patients. Differences between respondents and non-respondents present the possibility for response bias. PCPs reported improved patient access to care , medication adherence , chronic condition management , and detection of serious illness. Established patients ' access did not diminish , perhaps due to reported practice changes.