 Rising healthcare costs have led to increased focus on the need to achieve a higher `` value of care. '' As value-maximization efforts expand to include more complex surgical patients , evidence to support meaningful implementation of complication-based initiatives is lacking. The objective of this study was to compare incremental costs of complications following major gastrointestinal ( GI) resections for organ-specific malignant neoplasia using nationally representative data. National ( Nationwide) Inpatient Sample data , 2001-2014 , were queried for adult<disease> ( ≥ 18 years) patients undergoing major resections for malignant neoplasia. Based on system-based complications considered relevant to the long-term treatment of GI disease , stratified differences in risk-adjusted incremental hospital costs and complication probabilities were compared. Differences in surgical outcomes and costs over time were also assessed. A total of 293,967 patients were included , weighted to represent 1,408,117 patients nationwide. One fourth ( 26.1 %; 95 % CI , 25.7-26.4 %) experienced ≥ 1 pre-discharge complication ( range , 45.3 % esophagectomy to 24.0 % rectal resection). Resultant annual risk-adjusted incremental hospital costs totaled $ 540 million nationwide ( 19.5 % of the overall cost of care and an average of $ 20,900 per patient). Costs varied substantially with both cancer/resection type and complication group , ranging from $ 76.7 million for colectomies with infectious complications to $ 0.2 million for rectal resections with urinary complications. For each resection type , infectious ( $ 154.7 million) , GI ( $ 85.5 million) , and pulmonary ( $ 77.9 million) complications were among the most significant drivers of increased hospital cost. Quantifying and comparing the impact of complications on an indication-specific level in more complex patients offers an important step toward allowing providers/payers to meaningfully prioritize the design of novel and adaptation of existing value-maximization approaches.