 Ketamine , an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist , exerts robust antidepressant effects in patients with treatment-resistant depression<symptom>. The precise mechanisms underlying ketamine 's antidepressant actions remain unclear , although previous research suggests that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor ( AMPAR) activation plays a role. We investigated whether ( S)- norketamine and ( R)- norketamine , the two main metabolites of ( R , S)- ketamine , also play a significant role in ketamine 's antidepressant effects and whether the effects are mediated by AMPAR. Cellular mechanisms of antidepressant action of norketamine enantiomers were examined in mice. ( S)- Norketamine had more potent antidepressant effects than ( R)- norketamine in inflammation<symptom> and chronic social defeat stress models. Furthermore , ( S)- norketamine induced more beneficial effects on decreased dendritic spine density and synaptogenesis in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus compared with ( R)- norketamine. Unexpectedly , AMPAR antagonists did not block the antidepressant effects of ( S)- norketamine. The electrophysiological data showed that , although ( S)- norketamine inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic currents , ( S)- norketamine did not enhance AMPAR-mediated neurotransmission in hippocampal neurons. Furthermore , ( S)- norketamine improved reductions in brain-derived neurotrophic factor-tropomyosin receptor kinase B signaling in the prefrontal cortex of mice susceptible to chronic social defeat stress , whereas the tropomyosin receptor kinase B antagonist and a mechanistic target of rapamycin inhibitor blocked the antidepressant effects of ( S)- norketamine. In contrast to ( S)- ketamine , ( S)- norketamine did not cause behavioral abnormalities , such as prepulse inhibition deficits , reward effects , loss of parvalbumin immunoreactivity in the medial prefrontal cortex , or baseline gamma-band oscillation increase. Our data identified a novel AMPAR activation-independent mechanism underlying the antidepressant effects of ( S)- norketamine. ( S)- Norketamine and its prodrugs could be novel antidepressants without the detrimental side effects of ( S)- ketamine.