 To investigate the relationship between the degree of posterior bowing of the lamina cribrosa ( LC) at baseline and the rate of subsequent visual field ( VF) progression in eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG). Prospective , observational study. One hundred one early-stage ( VF mean deviation ( MD) , -5.0 to -0.01 dB) POAG eyes that met the following conditions: ( 1) follow-up longer than 3.5 years , ( 2) more than 5 reliable standard automated perimetry tests , and ( 3) medically well-controlled intraocular pressure during follow-up. All participants underwent swept-source OCT scanning of the LC at baseline. The area enclosed by a vertical line at the anterior laminar insertion , anterior LC plane , and reference plane of Bruch 's membrane opening ( BMO) was divided by D ( distance between the 2 cross-points made by vertical lines drawn from the anterior laminar insertion to the reference plane of BMO) to approximate the LC depth ( LCD). The difference between the LCD and mean anterior laminar insertion depth was defined as the LC curvature index ( LCCI). To consider the steepness of the LC curve , the adjusted LCCI ( aLCCI) was calculated as LCCI divided by D and multiplied by 100. The mean LCD ( mLCD) , mean LCCI ( mLCCI) , and mean aLCCI ( maLCCI) were computed by averaging the measurements on 12 radial scans. The subsequent MD slope and associated factors were analyzed. Lamina cribrosa parameters and subsequent MD slope. The participants ' mean baseline MD was -3.8 ± 3.4 dB. The mean baseline mLCD , mLCCI , and maLCCI were 419.0 ± 111.2 μm , 76.4 ± 29.0 μm , and 4.8 ± 1.9 , respectively. A greater MD slope was associated with a greater baseline maLCCI ( P < 0.001). We found a statistically significant breakpoint for the maLCCI ( 4.12) above which a larger maLCCI showed a steeper MD slope ( P < 0.001). Analysis by age revealed that significantly more VF progression with maLCCI changes occurred in the relatively younger group ( ≤ 69 years; P = 0.043). The baseline maLCCI showed a significant correlation with the rate of subsequent VF deterioration. This suggests that , in POAG eyes with greater posterior bowing of the LC , the axons of retinal ganglion cells may be more vulnerable to further glaucomatous injury.