 The Global Registry for Endovascular Aortic Treatment ( GREAT) is a prospective multicenter registry collecting real-world data on the performance of W. L. Gore ( Flagstaff , Ariz) aortic endografts. The purpose of the present study was to analyze the implementation and outcomes of thoracic endovascular aortic repair ( TEVAR) in GREAT patients with type B aortic dissection ( TBAD). From 2010 to 2016 , > 5000 patients were enrolled in the GREAT from 113 centers in 14 countries across 4 continents. The study population comprised those treated for TBAD. The primary outcomes of interest were mortality and freedom from aortic events ( AEs). A total of 264 patients ( 80 % male; mean age , 62 years) underwent TEVAR for the treatment of 170 ( 64 %) acute and 94 ( 36 %) chronic cases of TBAD. Chronic TBAD patients required significantly longer endograft coverage than did acute TBAD patients ( P = .05). Early postoperative complications occurred in 9 % of patients , with no difference in chronic vs acute dissection ( P = .11). The 30-day aortic mortality and all-cause mortality were 1.5 % and 2.3 % , respectively , with no differences based on chronicity. During a mean follow-up of 26 months , the total aortic mortality was 2.7 % and the total all-cause mortality was 12.5 %. The all-cause mortality was significantly greater for chronic vs acute TBAD ( 19.2 % vs 8.8 % , respectively; P = .02). On multivariate analysis , patients with acute uncomplicated dissections had significantly improved overall survival compared with all other categories of dissections ( 93 % vs 83 % at 2 years; P < .05). A proximal landing zone diameter > 40 mm was associated with an increased risk of retrograde type A dissection ( 18 % vs 2 %; P = .02). Patients undergoing left subclavian artery ( LSA) coverage experienced a twofold greater rate of AEs compared with noncoverage patients ( P < .01). Patients who underwent LSA revascularization experienced a 1.5-fold greater rate of AEs compared with patients covered without revascularization ( P = .04). TEVAR for TBAD using the conformable GORE TAG thoracic endoprosthesis device can be performed with a low incidence of aortic mortality and complications. Acute uncomplicated TBAD patients had a significantly lower mortality rate than that of other patients. Larger proximal landing zones were associated with more frequent retrograde type A dissection. LSA involvement ( coverage and/or revascularization) was associated with an increased risk of AEs during follow-up.