 To compare oral health-related quality of life ( OHRQoL) in children and adolescents with and without migration background , and to assess whether potential differences in OHRQoL can be sufficiently explained by oral health characteristics. A consecutive sample of 112 children and adolescents was recruited in a German university-based orthodontic clinic , and a convenience sample of 313 children and adolescents of German public schools was enrolled in the study ( total N = 425 , age range 7-17 years). However , 29 participants were excluded due to insufficient information regarding migration background. Accordingly , the non-migrant group consisted of 262 participants ( 61.6 %). For children with migration background , two groups were classified: ( i) one parent born in a foreign country ( N = 41 , 9.6 % , single-sided migration background) , and ( ii) both parents and/or child born in a foreign country ( N = 93 , 21.9 % , double-sided migration background). OHRQoL was assessed using the German 19-item version of the Child Oral Health Impact Profile ( COHIP-G19). Additionally , physical oral health of 269 children with classified migration background was determined in a dental examination. Overall , OHRQoL was significantly lower in the group with double-sided migration background indicated by lower COHIP-G19 summary scores ( mean: 58.6 points) than in the group with single-sided migration background ( mean: 63.3 points) or the non-migrant group ( mean: 63.2 points). Likewise , the summary scores of the subscale `` oral health well-being '' and the subscale `` social/emotional , school , and self-image '' were also lower in the double-sided migrant group than in the other two groups. Linear regression analysis showed an association between double-sided migration background and impaired OHRQoL , even after statistically controlling for demographic , socioeconomic , and oral health characteristics. Children and adolescents with double-sided migration background have poorer OHRQoL than comparably aged migrants with single-sided migration background or non-migrations. Between-group differences in OHRQoL could not be sufficiently explained by effects of socioeconomic status or physical oral health characteristics. Thus , other methodological , cultural , or immigration-related factors might also play an important role for the observed effects.