 Pyelovenous/pyelolymphatic backflow from acute ureteral obstruction , manifesting radiologically as perinephric fat stranding ( PFS) , may result in elevated serum creatinine. Among patients with acutely obstructing ureterolithiasis , we evaluated the relationship between degree of PFS and changes in serum creatinine from baseline. Our tertiary care center 's radiology dictation system ( Fluency Discovery , M Modal) was queried for noncontrast abdominopelvic CT studies obtained in the Emergency Department for patients with obstructing ureteral calculi from 7/2015 to 4/2016. A single radiologist blinded to clinical data reviewed all CT scans and coded stone size , location , severity of hydronephrosis , and degree of PFS ( none , mild , moderate , severe). For patients who met imaging criteria , a retrospective chart review was performed. We evaluated 148 patients with mean age of 46 years ( SD 14.6) , 56.0 % ( n = 83) were male. On univariate analysis , moderate-severe perinephric stranding was associated with elevated creatinine from baseline ( OR 2.93 , p = 0.03). Mean creatinine increased as the severity of stranding increased ( none Cr = 0.978 mg/dL , mild Cr = 0.983 mg/dL , moderate Cr = 1.165 mg/dL , severe Cr = 1.370 mg/dL; p < 0.01). An increase in creatinine from baseline was not associated with greater severity of hydronephrosis ( OR 0.504 , p = 0.189). There was no association between degree of PFS and severity of hydronephrosis , positive urine culture , stone location , or symptom duration ( p > 0.05). On regression analysis controlling for positive urine culture and degree of hydronephrosis , there remained an association between elevated serum creatinine from baseline and moderate-severe PFS ( OR 9.0 , p = 0.01). Among patients with acute obstructive ureterolithiasis , moderate-severe PFS was associated with elevated serum creatinine from baseline. This elevated creatinine was not explained by the obstructed kidney alone , as there was no association between the severity of hydronephrosis and increased creatinine. Pyelovenous/pyelolymphatic backflow resulting in PFS may be a contributing factor to elevated serum creatinine in this setting.