 It is pivotal to achieve efficient triplet-triplet annihilation based photon upconversion ( TTA-UC) in the solid-state for enhancing potentials of renewable energy production devices. However , the UC efficiency of solid materials is largely limited by low fluorescence quantum yields that originate from the aggregation of TTA-UC chromophores and also by severe back energy transfer from the acceptor singlet state to the singlet state of the triplet donor in the condensed state. In this work , to overcome these issues , we introduce a highly fluorescent singlet energy collector as the third component of donor-doped acceptor crystalline films , in which dual energy migration , i.e. , triplet energy migration for TTA-UC and succeeding singlet energy migration for transferring energy to a collector , takes place. To demonstrate this scheme , a highly fluorescent singlet energy collector was added as the third component of donor-doped acceptor crystalline films. An anthracene-based acceptor containing alkyl chains and a carboxylic moiety is mixed with the triplet donor Pt ( II) octaethylporphyrin ( PtOEP) and the energy collector 2,5,8,11-tetra- tert-butylperylene ( TTBP) in solution , and simple spin-coating of the mixed solution gives acceptor films of nanofibrous crystals homogeneously doped with PtOEP and TTBP. Interestingly , delocalized singlet excitons in acceptor crystals are found to diffuse effectively over the distance of ∼ 37 nm. Thanks to this high diffusivity , only 0.5 mol % of doped TTBP can harvest most of the singlet excitons , which successfully doubles the solid-state fluorescent quantum yield of acceptor/TTBP blend films to 76 %. Furthermore , since the donor PtOEP and the collector TTBP are separately isolated in the nanofibrous acceptor crystals , the singlet back energy transfer from the collector to the donor is effectively avoided. Such efficient singlet energy collection and inhibited back energy transfer processes result in a large increase of UC efficiency up to 9.0 % , offering rational design principles toward ultimately efficient solid-state upconverters.