 The formation of complete and well-functioning endothelium is critical for the success of tissue-engineered vascular grafts yet remaining a fundamental challenge. Endothelium remodeling onto the lumen of tissue-engineered vascular grafts is affected by their topographical , mechanical , and biochemical characteristics. For meeting multiple requirements , composite strategies have recently emerged for fabricating hybrid scaffolds , where the integrated properties are tuned by varying their compositions. However , the underlying principle how the integrated properties of hybrid scaffolds regulate vascular endothelium remodeling remains unclear. To uncover the regulation effects of hybrid scaffolds on vascular endothelium remodeling , we prepared different biomimetic hybrid scaffolds using gelatin methacrylamide ( GelMA) and poly-ε-caprolactone ( PCL) and then investigated vascular endothelial cell responses on them. GelMA and PCL , respectively , conferred the resulting scaffolds with biomimetic bioactivity and mechanical properties , which were tuned by varying GelMA/PCL mass ratios ( 3:1 , 1:1 , or 1:3). On different GelMA/PCL hybrid scaffolds , distinct vascular endothelial cell responses were observed. Firm cell-scaffold/cell-cell interactions were rapidly established on the hybrid scaffolds with the highest mass ratio of bioactive GelMA. However , they were mechanically insufficient as vascular grafts. On the contrary , the scaffolds with the highest mass ratio of PCL showed significantly reinforced mechanical properties but poor biological performance. Between the two extremes , the scaffolds with the same GelMA/PCL mass ratio balanced the pros and cons of two materials. Therefore , they could meet the mechanical requirements of vascular grafts and support the early-stage vascular endothelial cell remodeling by appropriate biological signaling and mechanotransduction. This investigation experimentally proves that scaffold bioactivity is the dominant factor affecting vascular endothelial cell adhesion and remodeling , whereas mechanical properties are crucial factors for the integrity of endothelium. This work offers a universal design strategy for desirable vascular grafts for improved endothelium remodeling.