 Using RNA-Seq , we cloned and characterized a unique monoterpene synthase responsible for the formation of a scent-determining S-linalool constituent of lavender oils from Lavandula × intermedia<pathogen>. Several species of Lavandula produce essential oils ( EOs) consisting mainly of monoterpenes including linalool , one of the most abundant and scent-determining oil constituents. Although R-linalool dominates the EOs of lavenders , varying amounts ( depending on the species) of the S-linalool enantiomer can also be found in these plants. Despite its relatively low abundance , S-linalool contributes a sweet , pleasant scent and is an important constituent of lavender EOs. While several terpene synthase genes including R-linalool synthase have been cloned from lavenders many important terpene synthases including S-linalool synthase have not been described from these plants. In this study , we employed RNA-Seq and other complementary sequencing data to clone and functionally characterize the sparsely expressed S-linalool synthase cDNA ( LiS-LINS) from Lavandula × intermedia<pathogen>. Recombinant LiS-LINS catalyzed the conversion of the universal monoterpene precursor geranyl diphosphate to S-linalool as the sole product. Intriguingly , LiS-LINS exhibited very low ( ~ 30 %) sequence similarity to other Lavandula terpene synthases , including R-linalool synthase. However , the predicted 3D structure of this protein , including the composition and arrangement of amino acids at the active site , is highly homologous to known terpene synthase proteins. LiS-LINS transcripts were detected in flowers , but were much less abundant than those corresponding to LiR-LINS , paralleling enantiomeric composition of linalool in L. × intermedia<pathogen> oils. These data indicate that production of S-linalool is at least partially controlled at the level of transcription from LiS-LINS. The cloned LiS-LINS cDNA may be used to enhance oil composition in lavenders and other plants through metabolic engineering.