 To analyse which mammographic and tumour characteristics led to concordant versus discordant recalls at blinded double reading to further optimise our breast cancer screening programme. We included a consecutive series of 99,013 screening mammograms obtained between July 2013 and January 2015. All mammograms were double read in a blinded fashion. Discordant readings were routinely recalled without consensus or arbitration. During the 2-year follow-up , relevant data of the recalled women were collected. We compared mammographic characteristics , screening outcome and tumour characteristics between concordant and discordant recalls. There were 2,543 concordant recalls ( 71.4 %) and 997 discordant recalls ( 28.0 %). The positive predictive value of a concordant recall was significantly higher ( 23.5 % vs. 10.0 % , p < 0.001). The proportion of BI-RADS 0 was significantly higher in the discordant recall group ( 75.7 % vs. 56.3 % , p < 0.001). Discordant recalls were more often an asymmetry or architectural distortion ( 21.8 % vs. 13.2 % and 9.3 % vs. 6.5 % , respectively , p < 0.001). There were no differences in the distribution of DCIS and invasive cancers and tumour characteristics were comparable for the two groups , except for a more favourable tumour grade in the discordant recall group ( 54.7 % vs. 39.9 % grade I tumours , p = 0.022). Screen-detected cancers detected by a discordant reading show a more favourable tumour grade than cancers diagnosed after a concordant recall. The higher proportion of asymmetries and architectural distortions in this group provide a possible target for improving screening programmes by additional training of screening radiologists and the implementation of digital breast tomosynthesis. • With blinded double reading of screening mammograms , screen-detected cancers detected by a discordant reading show a more favourable tumour grade than cancers diagnosed after a concordant recall. • The proportions of asymmetries and architectural distortions are higher in case of a discordant reading. • Possible improvement strategies could target additional training of screening radiologists and the implementation of digital breast tomosynthesis in breast cancer screening programmes.