 Brain microvascular endothelial cells form a highly selective blood brain barrier regulated by the endothelial tight junctions. Cerebral ischemia selectively targets tight junction protein complexes , which leads to significant damage to cerebral microvasculature. Short noncoding molecules called microRNAs are implicated in the regulation of various pathological states , including endothelial barrier dysfunction. In the present study , we investigated the influence of microRNA-155 ( miR-155) on the barrier characteristics of human primary brain microvascular endothelial cells ( HBMECs). Oxygen-glucose deprivation was used as an in vitro model of ischemic stroke. HBMECs were subjected to 3 hours of oxygen-glucose deprivation , followed by transfections with miR-155 inhibitor , mimic , or appropriate control oligonucleotides. Intact normoxia control HBMECs and 4 oxygen-glucose deprivation-treated groups of cells transfected with appropriate nucleotide were subjected to endothelial monolayer electrical resistance and permeability assays , cell viability assay , assessment of NO and human cytokine/chemokine release , immunofluorescence microscopy , Western blot , and polymerase chain reaction analyses. Assessment of endothelial resistance and permeability demonstrated that miR-155 inhibition improved HBMECs monolayer integrity. In addition , miR-155 inhibition significantly increased the levels of major tight junction proteins claudin-1 and zonula occludens protein-1 , while its overexpression reduced these levels. Immunoprecipitation and colocalization analyses detected that miR-155 inhibition supported the association between zonula occludens protein-1 and claudin-1 and their stabilization at the HBMEC membrane. Luciferase reporter assay verified that claudin-1 is directly targeted by miR-155. Based on these results , we conclude that miR-155 inhibition-induced strengthening of endothelial tight junctions after oxygen-glucose deprivation is mediated via its direct target protein claudin-1.