 To compare MR imaging with or without DWI and clinical response evaluation ( CRE) in the local control evaluation of cervical carcinoma after radiotherapy. In a multicentre university setting , we prospectively included 107 patients with primary cervical cancer treated with radiotherapy. Sensitivity and specificity for CRE and MR imaging ( with pre-therapy MR imaging as reference) ( 2 readers) were evaluated using cautious and strict criteria for identifying residual tumour. Nested logistic regression models were constructed for CRE , subsequently adding MR imaging with and without DWI as independent variables , as well as the pre- to post-treatment change in apparent diffusion coefficient ( delta ADC). Using cautious criteria , CRE and MR imaging with DWI ( reader 1/reader 2) have comparable high specificity ( 83 % and 89 %/ 95 % , respectively) , whereas MR imaging without DWI showed significantly lower specificity ( 63 %/ 53 %) than CRE. Using strict criteria , CRE and MR imaging with DWI both showed very high specificity ( 99 % and 92 %/ 95 % , respectively) , whereas MR imaging without DWI showed significantly lower specificity ( 89 %/ 77 %) than CRE. All sensitivities were not significantly different. Addition of MR imaging with DWI to CRE has statistically significant incremental value in identifying residual tumour ( reader 1: estimate , 1.06; p = 0.001) ( reader 2: estimate , 0.62; p = 0.02). Adding the delta ADC did not have significant incremental value in detecting residual tumour. DWI significantly increases the specificity of MR imaging in the detection of local residual tumour. Furthermore , MR imaging with DWI has significant incremental diagnostic value over CRE , whereas adding the delta ADC has no incremental diagnostic value. • If MR imaging is used for response evaluation , DWI should be incorporated • MR imaging with DWI has diagnostic value comparable/complementary to clinical response evaluation • Inter-reader agreement is moderate<symptom> to fair for two experienced radiologist readers • Quantitative measurements of ADC early post-therapy have limited diagnostic value.