 Scientific journals have virtually disappeared as subscription-based familiar paper copies. These have been replaced by article by article access on internet sites ( either subscription based paid for by libraries in multi-journal often million dollar ` Big Deal ' packages or by author prepayments of thousand dollars ` article processing fees ' ( Omary and Lawrence , Dealing with rising publication costs. The Scientist 2017; 31:29-31) , followed by open access. The result appears to be the death of the traditional scientific journal as a familiar means of communication , after nearly 350 years from the time of Anton van Leeuwenhoek and Robert Hooke ( for two early microbiology examples). Rather than journals with page numbers , individual reports are accessed using titles or manuscript file code numbers. This commentary is knowingly provocative , describing the rapidly changing situation in scientific publication at the beginning of the 21st century and predicting a bad future , basically the end of the long-time most-used vehicles for scientific communication , the paper scientific journal with volumes and pages. This view is not particular to this author and appears frequently today ( e.g.. The Scientist 2012; https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2016/10/26/revisiting-why-hasnt-scientific-publishing-been-disrupted-already/). This negative conclusion offers no better possibilities , as it is concluded that it is already too late and too far along this pathway for any meaningful middle ground. This commentary is intended for a broad group of potential readers , including authors and readers of this journal ( who are active microbial scientists who need to adapt to individual manuscript identification numbers replacing page numbers) , as well as the larger community interested broadly in scientific communication , and even our institutional librarians ( who have experienced the disappearance of paper copies from their shelves , and especially unsustainable rapid increases in money costs at a time of very limited resources).