 Stress index provides a noninvasive approach to detect injurious ventilation patterns and to personalize ventilator settings. Obtaining the stress index ( SI) , however , requires quantitatively analyzing the shape of pressure-time curve with dedicated instruments or a specific ventilator , which may encumber its clinical implementation. We hypothesized that the SI could be qualitatively determined through a visual inspection of ventilator waveforms. Thirtysix adult subjects undergoing volume controlled ventilation without spontaneous breathing were enrolled. For each subject , 2 trained clinicians visually inspected the pressure-time curve directly from the ventilator screen. They then qualitatively categorized the shape of pressure-time curve as linear , a downward concavity , or an upward concavity at the bedside. We simultaneously recorded airway pressure and flow signals using a dedicated instrument. A quantitative off-line analysis was performed to calculate the SI using specific research software. This quantitative analysis of the SI served as the reference method for classifying the shape of the pressure-time curve ( ie , linear , a downward concavity , or an upward concavity). We compared the SI categorized by visual inspection with that by the reference. We obtained 200 SI assessments of pressure-time curves , among which 125 ( 63 %) were linear , 55 ( 27 %) were a downward concavity , and 20 ( 10 %) were an upward concavity as determined by the reference method. The overall accuracy of visual inspection and weighted kappa statistic ( 95 % CI) was 93 % ( 88-96 %) and 0.88 ( 0.82- 0.94) , respectively. The sensitivity and specificity to distinguish a downward concavity from a linear shape were 91 % and 98 % , respectively. The respective sensitivity and specificity to distinguish an upward concavity from a linear shape were 95 % and 95 %. Visual inspection of the pressure-time curve on the ventilator screen is a simple and reliable approach to assess SI at the bedside. This simplification may facilitate the implementation of SI in clinical practice to personalize mechanical ventilation.