 Nipple-areolar complex reconstruction is the final step of the reconstructive procedure in breast cancer patients. Nowadays , a combination of a local flap for nipple reconstruction and skin grafting or tattooing for areola reconstruction is deemed a first choice. In this paper , we are combining the techniques of local flap and full-thickness skin graft from the upper inner thigh for simultaneous reconstruction of the nipple and areola. From January , 2016 to December , 2017 , 23 female patients with an absent unilateral nipple-areolar complex due to post-oncological mastectomy and immediate implant-based breast reconstruction were subjects of the study. On an out-patient clinic basis , the percentage of the nipple projection loss was calculated at the intervals of 3 , 6 and 12 months postoperatively. At the final visit , the patient 's subjective satisfaction on the reconstructed areola compared to the normal contralateral side was evaluated using a visual analogue scale. Over the course of time , the mean nipple projection loss was 20.16 ± 12.88 , 31.78 ± 11.63 and 34.69 ± 12.01 % at 3 , 6 and 12 months postoperatively , respectively. Patients ' overall satisfaction on the grafted areola was as follows; the largest number of patients ( 8 patients) had a ` good ' satisfaction 12-months postoperatively. Out of 21 patients , those who considered the result to be ` poor ' and ` disappointing ' each accounted for 1 and 3 patients. The combination of nipple-areolar complex reconstruction technique introduced in this study has proven to be a safe and efficacious alternative in patients with implant-based reconstruction requiring small- to medium-sized nipple projection , especially when the skin envelope is too tight for a local flap only. This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings , please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266.