 To develop and validate a clinical-radiomics nomogram for preoperative prediction of lung metastasis for colorectal cancer ( CRC) patients with indeterminate pulmonary nodules<symptom> ( IPN). 194 CRC patients with lung nodules<symptom> were enrolled in this study ( 136 in the training cohort and 58 in the validation cohort). To evaluate the probability of lung metastasis , we developed three models , the clinical model with significant clinical risk factors , the radiomics model with radiomics features constructed by the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator algorithm , and the clinical-radiomics model with significant variables selected by the stepwise logistic regression. The Akaike information criterion ( AIC) was used to compare the relative strength of different models , and the area under the curve ( AUC) was used to quantify the predictive accuracy. The nomogram was developed based on the most appropriate model. Decision-curve analysis was applied to assess the clinical usefulness. The clinical-radiomics model ( AIC = 98.893) with the lowest AIC value compared with that of the clinical-only model ( AIC = 138.502) or the radiomics-only model ( AIC = 116.146) was identified as the best model. The clinical-radiomics nomogram was also successfully developed with favourable discrimination in both training cohort ( AUC = 0.929 , 95 % CI: 0.885-0.974) and validation cohort ( AUC = 0.922 , 95 % CI: 0.857-0.986) , and good calibration. Decision-curve analysis confirmed the clinical utility of the clinical-radiomics nomogram. In CRC patients with IPNs , the clinical-radiomics nomogram created by the radiomics signature and clinical risk factors exhibited favourable discriminatory ability and accuracy for a metastasis prediction. • Clinical features can predict lung metastasis of colorectal cancer patients. • Radiomics analysis outperformed clinical features in assessing the risk of pulmonary metastasis. • A clinical-radiomics nomogram can help clinicians predict lung metastasis in colorectal cancer patients.