 Breast cancer is the most prevalent adult cancer worldwide. A broader use of screening for early detection and adjuvant systemic therapy with chemotherapy has resulted in improved survival rates. Taxane-containing chemotherapy is one of the cornerstones of the treatment. However , taxane-containing chemotherapy may result in acute chemotherapy-induced nociceptive and neuropathic pain. Since this pain may be an additional burden for the patient both during and after taxane chemotherapy , it is important to rapidly discover and treat it. There is yet no gold standard for assessing taxane-induced pain. In the clinic , applying multiple methods for collecting information on pain may better describe the patients ' pain experiences. The aim was to document the pain during and after taxane through the contribution of different methods for collecting information on taxane-induced pain. Fifty-three women scheduled for adjuvant sequential chemotherapy at doses of ≥ 75 mg/m2 of docetaxel and epirubicin were enrolled in the study. Prospective pain assessments were done on a visual analog scale ( VAS) before and during each cycle of treatment for about 5 months , and using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 's ( EORTC-QLQ-C30) two pain questions at baseline , 3 months , and 12 months. Participants scoring pain on the VAS > 30 and undergoing an interview also colored their pain on a body image during treatment and at 12 months. Surprisingly widespread , intense<symptom> pain<symptom> was detected using a multi-method approach. The colored body image showed pain being perceived on 51 % of the body surface area during treatment , and on 18 % 12 months after inclusion. In general , the pain started and peaked in intensity after the first cycle of taxane. After Cycle 3 , most women reported an increase in pain on the VAS. Some women continued to report some pain even during the epirubicin cycles. The VAS scores dropped after the last chemotherapy cycle , but not to the baseline level. At baseline , 3 months and 12 months after inclusion , the women who estimated VAS > 30 reported higher levels of pain on the pain questions of the EORTC-QLQ-C30. This study contributes information on how different pain assessment tools offer different information in the assessment of pain. The colored body image brings another dimension to pain diagnostics , providing additional information on the involved body areas and the pain intensities as experienced by the women. A multi-method approach to assessing pain offers many advantages. The timing of the assessment is important to properly assess pain. Pain relief needs to be included in the chemotherapy treatment , with individual assessment and treatment of pain , in the same way as is done in chemotherapy-triggered nausea<symptom>. There is a time window whereby the risk of pain development is at its highest within 24-48 h after receiving taxane chemotherapy. Proper attention to pain evaluation and treatment should be in focus during this time window.