 Elevated intracranial pressure ( ICP) is an important cause of death following acute liver failure ( ALF). While invasive ICP monitoring ( IICPM) is most accurate , the presence of coagulopathy increases bleeding risk in ALF. Our objective was to evaluate the accuracy of three noninvasive ultrasound-based measures for the detection of concurrent ICP elevation in ALF-optic nerve sheath diameter ( ONSD) using optic nerve ultrasound ( ONUS); middle cerebral artery pulsatility index ( PI) on transcranial Doppler ( TCD); and ICP calculated from TCD flow velocities ( ICPtcd) using the estimated cerebral perfusion pressure ( CPPe) technique. In this retrospective study , consecutive ALF patients admitted over a 6-year period who underwent IICPM as well as measurement of ONSD , TCD-PI or ICPtcd were included. ONSD was measured offline by a blinded investigator from deidentified videos. The ability of highest ONSD , TCD-PI , and ICPtcd to detect concurrent invasive ICP > 20 mmHg was assessed using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC) curves. The ROC area under the curve ( AUC) was calculated with 95 % confidence interval ( 95 % CI) and evaluated against the null hypothesis of AUC = 0.5. Noninvasive measures were also evaluated as predictors of in-hospital death. Forty-one ALF patients were admitted during the study period. In total , 27 ( 66 %) underwent IICPM , of these , 23 underwent ONUS and 21 underwent TCD. Eleven out of 23 ( 48 %) patients died ( two from intracranial hypertension). Results of ROC analysis for detection of concurrent ICP > 20 mmHg were as follows: ONSD AUC = 0.59 ( 95 % CI 0.37-0.79 , p = 0.54); TCD-PI AUC = 0.55 ( 95 % CI 0.34-0.75 , p = 0.70); and ICPtcd AUC = 0.90 ( 0.72-0.98 , p < 0.0001). None of the noninvasive measures were significant predictors of death. In patients with ALF , neither ONSD nor TCD-PI reliably detected concurrent ICP elevation on invasive monitoring. Estimation of ICP ( ICPtcd) using the TCD CPPe technique was associated with concurrent ICP elevation. Additional studies of TCD CPPe in larger numbers of ALF patients may prove worthwhile.