 Surgeon performance profiling is of great interest to surgeons , hospitals , health plans , and the public , yet efforts to date have been contested , with stakeholders at odds over the selection , reliability , and validity of metrics used. We sought to create surgeon-level comparative assessments within the Illinois Surgical Quality Improvement Collaborative. American College of Surgeons NSQIP data were obtained for 51 Illinois hospitals covering a 30-month period from 2014 to 2016. Surgeon-level , risk-adjusted outcomes rates were estimated from 3-level crossed random effects logistic regression models and classified as low , as expected , or high for each of 7 postoperative outcomes. Model intra-class correlations and provider-specific reliability statistics were calculated. A total of 123,141 cases were analyzed for 2,724 surgeons. Median provider case volume was 17 ( interquartile range 4 to 54). Overall crude complication rates ranged from 0.62 % to 7.14 % across the 7 outcomes investigated. Surgeon-level variance estimates were low ( intra-class correlation coefficients between 0.007 and 0.074). No performance outliers were detected for 3 of the outcomes measures , while a small number of outliers were identified for any morbidity ( 11 surgeons) , surgical<disease> site<disease> infection<disease> ( 10 surgeons) , death or serious morbidity ( 8 surgeons) , and reoperation ( 1 surgeon). Among all physicians , median reliability was below 0.1 for each outcome. Few individual surgeon performance outliers could be detected in NSQIP clinical registry data for a statewide hospital collaborative over a 30-month period using postoperative patient outcomes. Low surgeon-specific case volumes and minimal variance between surgeons may limit the utility of American College of Surgeons NSQIP outcomes measures for individual profiling. Alternative metrics , such as process measures , patient experience , composite measures , or technical skill assessments should be explored for surgeon-level measurement.