 Stroke patients are often elderly and afflicted with comorbidities that can make them more susceptible to surgical complications during anesthesia , such as respiratory<symptom> depression<symptom>. This study examined the clinical effects of dexmedetomidine hydrochloride combined with etomidate fat emulsion in patients undergoing interventional treatment of stroke during anesthesia. 90 patients with stroke admitted at the Second Hospital of Dalian Medical University between February 2015 and March 2016 were selected for interventional treatment in the study. The patients were randomly divided into three different treatment groups , with 30 patients in each group. Group A patients were treated with dexmedetomidine hydrochloride , group B patients were treated with etomidate fat emulsion , and group C patients were treated with dexmedetomidine hydrochloride combined with etomidate fat emulsion. Mean arterial blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> ( MAP) , heart rate ( HR) , wake-up time , and extubation time were compared and analyzed for the patients of each group at different time points. MAP and HR of patients in group C were notably decreased after anesthesia , and were significantly lower than patients in groups A and B ( p < 0.05). MAP and HR of the patients in groups A and B did not significantly change over the different time points. The three groups also did not show dramatic changes when patients were extubated after 3 min ( p > 0.05). Further data on wake-up time , extubation , and spontaneous breathing recovery time among the patients did not show any significant differences in the three groups ( p > 0.05). However , the prevalence of complications in group C was lower than in groups A and B ( p < 0.05). Dexmedetomidine hydrochloride combined with etomidate fat emulsion in patients undergoing interventional treatment of stroke during anesthesia has potential value in clinical applications , through the maintenance of ideal hemodynamics and a reduction in complications.