 Type II diabetes is a complex , chronic , and progressive disease. Glucagon-like peptide-1 ( 7-6) amide ( GLP-1) is a gut hormone released from the L cells which stimulates insulin secretion , and promotes insulin gene expression and β-cell growth and differentiation. Elevated levels of hormone secreted by L cells are an important reason for diabetes improvement. GLP-1 secretion has been reported to be regulated by farnesoid X receptor ( FXR) , a transcriptional sensor for bile acids which also acts on glucose metabolism. Herein , we attempted to evaluate the effect of FXR on GLP-1 secretion in mouse enteroendocrine L cell lines , STC-1 and GLUTag , and to investigate the underlying mechanism. ELISA and Western blot assays were employed to examine the levels of GLP-1 and FXR , and the effect of FXR on GLP-1 secretion; online database , including BioGRID and KEGG were used to identify the potential interactions between FXR and proteins and involved pathways; GST pull-down and Co-Immunoprecipitation ( Co-IP) assays were performed to validate FXR-CREB interaction; Luciferase reporter gene assays were used for CREB transcriptional activity determination. FXR inversely regulated GLP-1 secretion in the mouse enteroendocrine L cell lines , GLUTag and STC-1. A total of 24 nonredundant human proteins were shown to be related to FXR by BioGRID; KEGG pathway analysis showed that FXR was related to glucagon signaling pathway , particularly with the transcriptional activators CREB , PGC1α , Sirt1 and CBP. CREB could positively regulate GLP-1 secretion in GLUTag and STC-1 cells. FXR combined with CREB to inhibit its transcriptional activity , thus inhibiting proprotein convertase subtilisin/ kexin type 1 ( PCSK1) protein level and GLP-1 secretion. In the present study , we demonstrated a negative regulation of GLP-1 secretion by FXR in L cell lines , GLUTag and STC-1; FXR exerts its function in L cells through interacting with CREB , a crucial transcriptional regulator of cAMP-CREB signaling pathway , to inhibit its transcriptional activity. Targeting FXR to rescue GLP-1 secretion may be a promising strategy for type II diabetes.