 The evolution of conspicuous male traits is thought to be driven by female mate choice or male-male competition. These two mechanisms are often viewed as distinct processes , with most studies focusing on female choice. However , both mechanisms of sexual selection can act simultaneously on the same trait ( i.e. , dual function) and/or interact in a synergistic or conflicting way. Dual-function traits are commonly assumed to originate through male-male competition before being used in female choice; yet , most studies focusing on such traits could not determine the direction of change , lacking phylogenetic information. We investigated the role of conspicuous male seasonal plumage in male-male competitive interactions in the purple-crowned fairy-wren Malurus coronatus<pathogen> , a cooperatively breeding bird. Male breeding plumage in most Malurus species is selected by female choice through extra-pair mate choice , but unlike its congeners , M. coronatus<pathogen> is genetically monogamous , and females do not seem to choose males based on breeding plumage acquisition. Our study shows that , within groups , subordinate males that were older , and therefore higher-ranked in the queue for breeder position inheritance , produced a more complete breeding plumage. In line with this , subordinate males that were older and/or displayed a more complete breeding plumage were more successful in competitively acquiring a breeder position. A role as a signal of competitive ability was experimentally confirmed by presenting models of males: in breeding colours , these received more aggression from resident breeder males than in nonbreeding colours , but elicited limited response from females , consistent with competitors in breeding plumage being perceived as a bigger threat to the breeder male. The role of the conspicuous breeding plumage in mediating male-male interactions might account for its presence in this genetically monogamous species. As phylogenetic reconstructions suggest a past female choice function in M. coronatus<pathogen> , this could represent a sexual trait that shifted functions , or a dual-function trait that lost one function. These evolutionary scenarios imply that intra- and intersexual functions of ornaments may be gained or lost independently and offer new perspectives in understanding the complex dynamics of sexual selection.