 Key requirements for quantitative structure-activity relationship ( QSAR) models to gain acceptance by regulatory authorities include a defined domain of applicability ( DA) and appropriate measures of goodness-of-fit , robustness , and predictivity. Hence , many DA metrics have been developed over the past two decades. The most intuitive are perhaps distance-to-model metrics , which are most commonly defined in terms of the mean distance between a molecule and its k nearest training samples. Detailed evaluations have shown that the variance of predictions by an ensemble of QSAR models may serve as a DA metric and can outperform distance-to-model metrics. Intriguingly , the performance of ensemble variance metric has led researchers to conclude that the error of predicting a new molecule does not depend on the input descriptors or machine-learning methods but on its distance to the training molecules. This implies that the distance to training samples may serve as the basis for developing a high-performance DA metric. In this article , we introduce a new Tanimoto distance-based DA metric called the sum of distance-weighted contributions ( SDC) , which takes into account contributions from all molecules in a training set. Using four acute chemical toxicity data sets of varying sizes and four other molecular property data sets , we demonstrate that SDC correlates well with the prediction error for all data sets regardless of the machine-learning methods and molecular descriptors used to build the QSAR models. Using the acute toxicity data sets , we compared the distribution of prediction errors with respect to SDC , the mean distance to k-nearest training samples , and the variance of random forest<disease> predictions. The results showed that the correlation with the prediction error was highest for SDC. We also demonstrate that SDC allows for the development of robust root mean squared error ( RMSE) models and makes it possible to not only give a QSAR prediction but also provide an individual RMSE estimate for each molecule. Because SDC does not depend on a specific machine-learning method , it represents a canonical measure that can be widely used to estimate individual molecule prediction errors for any machine-learning method.