 Cardiovascular complications are responsible for increased mortality and morbidity in chronic kidney disease ( CKD) patients. Functional and structural changes of peritoneal membrane are reported in CKD patients both on conservative treatment and on renal replacement therapy ( RRT). The aim of the study was to assess the structure of peritoneal membrane small arteries ( precapillary arterioles) in diabetic and non-diabetic CKD stage 5 patients before initiation of peritoneal dialysis ( PD) and evaluate its relationship with heart and large arteries abnormalities and with selected biochemical parameters. Evaluation of 42 CKD stage 5 patients before starting PD. Diabetic ( n = 26) and non-diabetic ( n = 16) patients were compared. Peritoneal membrane samples were taken during Tenckhoff catheter insertion. Histopathological evaluation of peritoneal precapillary arterioles ( arteriolar evaluation) with measurement of wall thickness ( WT) and calculation of lumen/vessel ( L/V) ratio was performed in each patients. Echocardiography , intima media thickness ( IMT) , pulse wave velocity ( PWV) , ambulatory blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> monitoring ( ABPM) and biochemical parameters assessment: serum albumin ( SA) , total cholesterol ( TCH) , hemoglobin ( Hgb) , parathormone ( PTH) , serum calcium ( Ca) , serum phosphorus ( P) , transferrin saturation ( TSAT %) , C-reactive protein ( CRP) were performed in each participant. There were no statistically significant differences in peritoneal membrane arteriolar indices- wall thickness ( WT) and L/V ratio between investigated groups. There was statistically significant higher PWV value in diabetic patients. There were no statistically significant differences in echocardiographic indices , IMT , laboratory data in analyzed groups. There were some linear correlations between: PWV vs IMT ( R = 0,84; p = 0,0006); PWV vs PP ( R = 0,58; p = 0,03) in non-diabetic and linear correlation between: PWV vs age ( R = 0,75; p = 0,02); WT vs DP ( R = -0,93; p = 0,001); WT vs DBP ( R = 0,64; p = 0,04) in diabetic group. Peritoneal membrane arteriolar damage seems to be an integrated part of cardiovascular system damage in CKD stage 5 patients.