 To investigate the preventive effects and differences of NSAIDs combined with radiotherapy , NSAIDs and radiotherapy for heterotopic ossification ( HO) after total hip arthroplasty ( THA). From February 2015 to July 2016 , 168 hips undergoing primary THA were divided into group A , B and C , and 163 patients were followed up ( 54 cases and 54 hips in group A , 55 cases and 55 hips in group B , 54 cases and 54 hips in group C). Among group A , 5 hips were primary osteoarthritis , 37 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to avascular necrosis<symptom> of the femoral head , 12 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to acetabular dysplasia. Patients in group A received oral celecoxib ( 0.2 g , 2 times a day) for 2 weeks after operation. Among group B , 6 hips were primary osteoarthritis , 32 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to avascular necrosis<symptom> of the femoral head , 17 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to acetabular dysplasia , all of which in group B were treated with preoperative single 7 Gy radiotherapy. Among group C , 5 hips were primary osteoarthritis , 35 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to avascular necrosis<symptom> of the femoral head , 14 hips were secondary osteoarthritis due to acetabular dysplasia. Patients in group C were treated with preoperative radiotherapy and celecoxib after operation. The side effects of gastrointestinal reactions were observed after operation , and the heterotopic ossification was evaluated by pelvic anterior and posterior X-ray ( Brooker grading). The mean clinical and radiological follow-up was 21 months ( 12 to 30 months). In group A , 54 hips were followed up with 7 hips with heterotopic ossification , including 5 hips of Brooker I and 2 hips of Brooker II. In group B , 55 hips were successfully followed up , with 8 hips of heterotopic ossification occurred , including 6 hips of Brooker I , 2 hips of Brooker II. In group C , 54 hips were successfully followed up , with 5 hips of heterotopic ossification occurred , including 4 hips of Brooker I , 1 hip of Brooker II. There was no significant difference in efficacy among 3 groups ( The combined-therapy group has lower prevalence of HO than the NSAIDs group or radiotherapy group , but the statistical difference between them is not significant. NSAIDs is still the first choice to prevent HO after THA.