 Uncaria rhynchophylla , known as `` Gou-teng '' , is a traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM) used to extinguish wind , clear heat , arrest convulsions<symptom> , and pacify the liver. Although U. rhynchophylla has a long history of being often used to treat central nervous system ( CNS) diseases , its efficacy and potential mechanism are still uncertain. This study investigated neuroprotective effect and the underlying mechanism of U. rhynchophylla extract ( URE) in MPP +- induced SH-SY5Y cells and MPTP-induced mice. MPP +- induced SH-SY5Y cells and MPTP-induced mice were used to established Parkinson 's disease ( PD) models. Quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics were used to uncover proteomics changes of URE. Western blotting was used to validate main differentially expressed proteins and test HSP90 client proteins ( apoptosis-related , autophagy-related , MAPKs , PI3K , and AKT proteins). Flow cytometry and JC-1 staining assay were further used to confirm the effect of URE on MPP +- induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. Gait analysis was used to detect the behavioral changes in MPTP-induced mice. The levels of dopamine ( DA) and their metabolites were examined in striatum<pathogen> ( STR) by HPLC-EC. The positive expression of tyrosine hydroxylase ( TH) was detected by immunohischemical staining and Western blotting. URE dose-dependently increased the cell viability in MPP +- induced SH-SY5Y cells. Quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics results confirmed that HSP90 was an important differentially expressed protein of URE. URE inhibited the expression of HSP90 , which further reversed MPP +- induced cell apoptosis and autophagy by increasing the expressions of Bcl-2 , Cyclin D1 , p-ERK , p-PI3K p85 , PI3K p110α , p-AKT , and LC3-I and decreasing cleaved caspase 3 , Bax , p-JNK , p-p38 , and LC3-II. URE also markedly decreased the apoptotic ratio and elevated mitochondrial transmembrane potential ( DΨm). Furthermore , URE treatment ameliorated behavioral impairments , increased the contents of DA and its metabolites and elevated the positive expressions of TH in SN and STR as well as the TH protein. URE possessed the neuroprotective effect in vivo and in vitro , regulated MAPK and PI3K-AKT signal pathways , and inhibited the expression of HSP90. U. rhynchophylla has potentials as therapeutic agent in PD treatment.