 Presentation of two typical cases with characteristic leopard retinopathy secondary to bilateral diffuse uveal melanocytic proliferation ( BDUMP) and idiopathic uveal effusion<symptom> syndrome<disease><symptom> ( IUES) and brief review of the literature about leopard spot retinopathy. A 43-year-old women , who was a known case of ovarian carcinoma , referred with gradual bilateral visual loss. In ophthalmic examination , subretinal fluid , multiple patchy subretinal hyperpigmented lesions<symptom> and leopard spot chorioretinopathy were evident in her both eyes. Fluorescein angiography showed multiple nummular hyperfluorescent lesions<symptom> surrounded by zones of hypofluorescence. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography revealed increased retinal thickness , subretinal fluid and RPE irregularities in both eyes. Enhanced depth imaging OCT ( EDI-OCT) showed bilateral subfoveal choroidal thickening. During next 2-year follow-up , she underwent cataract surgery and later on developed neovascular glaucoma in her both eyes. The second case was a 45-year-old man who had developed decreased visual acuity in his left eye for 3 years. Anterior segment examination was unremarkable , and both eyes had normal intraocular pressure. No vitreous inflammation<symptom> was observed. Fundoscopy revealed diffuse exudative retinal detachment in his left eye. Fluorescein angiography showed leopard spot retinopathy of posterior pole , and EDI-OCT disclosed subfoveal choroidal thickening. After exclusion of other causes of exudative retinal detachment and with diagnosis of IUES , he underwent intravitreal triamcinolone injection ( 2 mg) which improved his final vision to 20/40. Leopard spot retinopathy is an uncommon but clinically distinct manifestation of various disorders. BDUMP may present with leopard spot retinopathy , anterior uveal tract involvement and neovascular glaucoma. As EDI-OCT showed involvement and increased thickening of choroid in both cases of BDUMP and IUES , it may be better to consider such cases as leopard chorioretinopathy and categorize these entities as a member of pachychoroid pigment retinopathy disorders.