 Recurrent lower urinary<disease> tract<disease> infections<disease> ( rUTI) in women are a highly prevalent and burdensome condition for which best practice guidelines for treatment and prevention that minimize harm and optimize well-being are greatly needed. To inform development of practice recommendations , a rapid literature review of original research , systematic reviews , meta-analyses and practice guidelines was conducted. PubMed , EMBASE , Opus , Scopus , Google Scholar , The Cochrane Library , and the U.S. National Guideline Clearinghouse electronic databases were searched from inception to September 22 , 2017. Articles and practice guidelines were included if they were in English , peer-reviewed , included women , involved treatment or prevention strategies for rUTI and reported an outcome related to recurrence rates of urinary<disease> tract<disease> infection<disease>. Critical appraisal of original studies was conducted using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool , and systematic reviews using the AMSTAR 2 tool. Of 1,582 citations identified , 74 met our inclusion criteria. These included 49 RCTs , 23 systematic reviews ( 16 with meta-analyses) , and 2 practice guidelines. No study reported a multi-targeted treatment approach. There was a lack of high quality studies and systematic reviews evaluating rUTI prevention strategies. We recommend an algorithmic approach to care that includes education on lifestyle and behavioral modifications and addresses specific populations of women with antimicrobial-based and non-antibiotic alternatives. This includes the use of vaginal estrogen with or without lactobacillus<pathogen> containing probiotics in post-menopausal women , low dose post-coital antibiotics for rUTI associated with sexual activity in premenopausal women , low dose daily antibiotic prophylaxis in premenopausal women with infections unrelated to sexual activity , and methenamine hippurate and/or lactobacillus<pathogen> containing probiotics as non-antibiotic alternatives. Future research should employ consistent use of terminology , validated instruments to assess response to interventions , and patient perspectives on care. Our treatment algorithm is based on the best available evidence and fills a gap in the literature and practice regarding effective strategies to prevent rUTI in women.