 To retrospectively review the radiological and clinicopathological features of gliosarcoma ( GSM) and differentiate it from glioblastoma multiforme<pathogen> ( GBM). The clinicopathological data and imaging findings ( including VASARI analysis) of 48 surgically and pathologically confirmed GSM patients ( group 1) were reviewed in detail , and were compared with that of other glioblastoma ( GBM) cases in our hospital ( group 2). There were 28 men and 20 women GSM patients with a median age of 52.5 years ( range , 24-80 years) in this study. Haemorrhage ( n = 21) , a salt-and-pepper sign on T2-weighted images ( n = 36) , unevenly thickened wall ( n = 36) even appearing as a paliform pattern ( n = 32) , an intra-tumoural large feeding artery ( n = 32) and an eccentric cystic portion ( ECP) ( n = 19) were more commonly observed in the GSM group than in GBM patients. Based on our experience , GSM can be divided into four subtypes according to magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) features. When compared to GBM ( group 2) , there were more patients designated with type III lesions<symptom> ( having very unevenly thickened walls) and IV ( solid) lesions<symptom> among the GSM cases ( group 1). On univariate prognostic analysis , adjuvant therapy ( radiotherapy , chemotherapy , and radiochemotherapy) and existence of an eccentric cyst<symptom> region were prognostic factors. However , Cox 's regression model showed only adjuvant therapy as a prognostic factor for GSM. When compared to GBM , certain imaging features are more likely to occur in GSM , which may help raise the possibility of this disease. All GSM patients are recommended to receive adjuvant therapy to achieve a better prognosis with radiotherapy , chemotherapy or radiochemotherapy all as options. • Diagnosis of gliosarcoma can be suggested preoperatively by imaging. • Gliosarcoma can be divided into four subtypes based on MRI. • Paliform pattern and ECP tend to present in gliosarcoma more than GBM. • The cystic subtype of gliosarcoma may predict a more dismal prognosis. • All gliosarcoma patients should receive adjuvant therapy to achieve better prognosis.