 Intraventricular hemorrhage<symptom> ( IVH) in preterm infants results in reduced proliferation and maturation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells ( OPCs) , and survivors exhibit reduced myelination and neurological deficits. Wnt signaling regulates OPC maturation and myelination in a context dependent manner. Herein , we hypothesized that the occurrence of IVH would downregulate Wnt signaling , and that activating Wnt signaling by GSK-3β inhibition or Wnt3A recombinant human protein ( rh-Wnt3A) treatment might promote maturation of OPCs , myelination of the white matter , and neurological recovery in premature rabbits with IVH. These hypotheses were tested in autopsy samples from preterm infants and in a rabbit model of IVH. Induction of IVH reduced expressions of activated β-catenin , TCF-4 , and Axin2 transcription factors in preterm newborns. Both AR-A014418 ( ARA) and Wnt-3A treatment activated Wnt signaling. GSK-3β inhibition by intramuscular ARA treatment accelerated maturation of OPCs , myelination , and neurological recovery in preterm rabbits with IVH compared to vehicle controls. In contrast , intracerebroventricular rh-Wnt3A treatment failed to enhance myelination and neurological function in rabbits with IVH. ARA treatment reduced microglia infiltration and IL1β expression in rabbits with IVH relative to controls , whereas Wnt3A treatment elevated TNFα , IL1β , and IL6 expression without affecting microglia density. GSK-3β inhibition downregulated , while rh-Wnt3A treatment upregulated Notch signaling; and none of the two treatments affected the Sonic-Hedgehog pathway. The administration of ARA or rh-Wnt3A did not affect gliosis. The data suggest that GSK-3β inhibition promoted myelination by suppressing inflammation<symptom> and Notch signaling; and Wnt3A treatment failed to enhance myelination because of its pro-inflammatory activity and synergy with Notch signaling. GSK-3β inhibitors might improve the neurological outcome of preterm infants with IVH.