 To report a case of hepatotoxicity when niacin was used by a patient with HIV<pathogen> to pass a drug test. Niacin is a soluble pyridine derivative widely used in the management of dyslipidemia. Common adverse effects include flushing , nausea<symptom> , gastrointestinal discomfort , and hepatotoxicity. The use of niacin for nonmedical purposes has been increasing in prevalence in recent years , particularly in attempts to alter or mask results of urine drug tests. Although there is no scientific evidence that niacin can alter a urine drug screen result , easily retrievable information exists on the Internet touting niacin as a potential way to prevent detection of tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC). The following report describes a case of hepatotoxicity in an HIV-infected adult<disease> who reported using niacin to mask THC in urine drug screen results. The patient developed marked elevations in his liver enzymes ( aspartate aminotransferase greater than 25 times the upper limit of normal and alanine aminotransferase greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal) that resolved after discontinuation of the drug. Because of the patient 's self-reported use and discontinuation of niacin , the Naranjo Adverse Drug Reaction Probability Scale demonstrated a `` definite '' relationship between the development of hepatotoxicity and the ingestion of over-the-counter sustained-release niacin. The patient did not develop further clinical abnormalities proposed to be secondary to niacin toxicity in previously published case reports , including glucose abnormalities , coagulopathies , metabolic acidosis , QTc prolongation , and myalgias<symptom>. Health care providers should be aware of this nonmedical use of niacin to alter or mask a drug test , especially when discerning the cause of hepatotoxicity. In addition , pharmacists in the community setting should be aware of this use of niacin when encountering patients purchasing over-the-counter niacin , particularly in patients who may be more likely to use illicit substances.