 Obesity surgery mortality risk scoring system ( OS-MRS) classifies patients into high , intermediate and low risk , based on age , body mass index , sex and other comorbidities such as hypertension and history of pulmonary embolism. High-risk patients not only have a higher mortality but are more likely to develop post-operative complications necessitating intervention or prolonged hospital stay following bariatric surgery. Endoscopically placed duodenal-jejunal bypass sleeve ( Endobarrier) has been designed to achieve weight<symptom> loss<symptom> and improve glycaemic control in morbidly obese patients with clinically proven effectiveness. The aim of this study was to assess if pre-operative insertion of endobarrier in high-risk patients can decrease morbidity and length of stay after bariatric surgery. Between 2012 and 2014 , a cohort of 11 high-risk patients had an Endobarrier inserted ( E&BS group) for 1 year prior to definitive bariatric surgery. These patients were compared against a similar group undergoing primary bariatric surgery ( PBS group) during same duration. The two groups were matched for age , gender , body mass index , comorbidities , surgical procedure and OS-MRS using propensity score matching. Outcome measures included operative time , morbidity , length of stay , intensive therapy unit ( ITU) stay , readmission rate , percentage excess weight<symptom> loss<symptom> ( % EWL) and percentage total weight<symptom> loss<symptom> ( % TWL). Patient characteristics and OS-MRS were similar in both groups ( match tolerance 0.1). There was no significant difference in total length of stay , readmission rate , % EWL and % TWL. Operative time , ITU stay , post-operative complications and severity of complications were significantly less in the E&BS group ( p < 0.05) with significant likelihood of planned ITU admissions in the PBS group ( p < 0.05). Endobarrier could be considered as a pre bariatric surgical intervention in high-risk patients. It may result in improved post-operative outcomes in high-risk bariatric patients.