 Elderly care at home is a matter of great concern if the elderly live alone , since unforeseen circumstances might occur that affect their well-being. Technologies that assist the elderly in independent living are essential for enhancing care in a cost-effective and reliable manner. Elderly care applications often demand real-time observation of the environment and the resident & rsquo; s activities using an event-driven system. As an emerging area of research and development , it is necessary to explore the approaches of the elderly care system in the literature to identify current practices for future research directions. Therefore , this work is aimed at a comprehensive survey of non-wearable ( i.e. , ambient) sensors for various elderly care systems. This research work is an effort to obtain insight into different types of ambient-sensor-based elderly monitoring technologies in the home. With the aim of adopting these technologies , research works , and their outcomes are reported. Publications have been included in this survey if they reported mostly ambient sensor-based monitoring technologies that detect elderly events ( e.g. , activities of daily living and falls) with the aim of facilitating independent living. Mostly , different types of non-contact sensor technologies were identified , such as motion , pressure , video , object contact , and sound sensors. Besides , multicomponent technologies ( i.e. , combinations of ambient sensors with wearable sensors) and smart technologies were identified. In addition to room-mounted ambient sensors , sensors in robot-based elderly care works are also reported. Research that is related to the use of elderly behavior monitoring technologies is widespread , but it is still in its infancy and consists mostly of limited-scale studies. Elderly behavior monitoring technology is a promising field , especially for long-term elderly care. However , monitoring technologies should be taken to the next level with more detailed studies that evaluate and demonstrate their potential to contribute to prolonging the independent living of elderly people.