 The Bethesda System for reporting thyroid cytopathology ( BSRTC) predicts an incidence of malignancy of less than 5 % in thyroid nodules<symptom> with a benign diagnosis on fine-needle aspiration ( FNA). However , recent series have suggested that the true rate of malignancy might be significantly higher in this category of patients. We reviewed our experience by performing a retrospective analysis of patients with benign thyroid FNA results who underwent thyroidectomy between 2008 and 2013 at a large academic center. Information including demographics , ultrasound features , FNA diagnosis , and surgical follow-up information were recorded. Slides were reviewed on cytology-histology discrepant cases , and it was determined whether the discrepancy was due to sampling or interpretation error. A total of 802 FNA cases with a benign diagnosis and surgical follow-up were identified. FNA diagnoses included 738 cases of benign goiter and 64 cases of lymphocytic thyroiditis. On subsequent surgical resection , 144 cases were found to be neoplastic , including 117 malignant cases. False negative , defined as interpretation error and inadequate biopsy of the nodule<disease> harboring malignancy , was 6 %. When cases of noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features ( NIFTP) were excluded from the analysis , false-negative rate was 5 %. When microPTC cases were excluded , false-negative rate was 3 % and was slightly less than 3 % when both microPTC and NIFTP cases were excluded from the analysis. Retrospective review of neoplastic cases showed that 57 % were due to sampling error and 43 % were due to interpretation error. Interpretation error was more likely to occur in follicular patterned neoplasms ( 75 %) , while sampling error was more common in non-follicular variants of papillary thyroid carcinoma ( non-FVPTC) ( 61 %). With the exclusion of microPTC , interpretation errors were still more likely to occur in follicular neoplasms ( 79 %) but there was no significant difference in sampling error between non-FVPTC ( 37 %) and follicular patterned neoplasms ( 42 %). Tumor size was larger in cases with interpretation error ( mean = 2.3 cm) compared to cases with sampling error ( mean = 1.4 cm). This study shows that the false-negative rate of thyroid FNA at our institution is not significantly above the rate suggested by the BSRTC. Interpretation errors were more likely to occur in follicular patterned neoplasms , while non-FVPTC was more frequently found in false negative cases due to inadequate sampling.