 The risk of developing basal cell carcinoma ( BCC) during lifetime varies between 29-55 % , while for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC) varies between 7-11 %. Between them , considered to be a BCC , there is a particular histological type , named metatypical basal cell carcinoma ( MTC) or basosquamous cell carcinoma ( BSCC). In this paper , we presented a rare case of metatypical carcinoma of the forehead with an interesting history of unexpected recurrences , underlining the clinical , therapeutic and histological essential aspects that may come in use to other clinicians in managing this type of cancer. In this case , the last recurrent tumor invaded the external layer of the frontal bone and needed a temporo-parietal flap to cover the large defect , which was previously covered in 2014 using skin grafts. Using Hematoxylin-Eosin ( HE) staining , the histological assessment revealed a basosquamous carcinoma ( IDO-O 8094/3 , according to World Health Organization). In addition to the histological aspects revealed using HE staining , in this case , diffused tumor cells were p63 nuclear positive , which according to Bircan et al. ( 2006) , it is strongly and diffuse reactive in 82.1 % differentiated , in 77.8 % of superficial and in 72.3 % of solid undifferentiated BCCs. The aggressive<symptom> behavior<symptom> was revealed by tumor 's dimension , local invasion of the frontal bone with high mitotic rate as seen in the van Gieson and HE staining , also by the number of recurrences. The prognosis of this case is reserved due to the number of recurrent tumors , immunohistochemistry anomalies , involvement of the external layer of the frontal bone , tumor site , gender , poor remaining reconstructive procedures in case of a relapse , thus , close follow-up is to be recommended for a period of minimum five years. Recurrent tumors raise treatment difficulties regarding the reconstruction procedure of the defect after wide surgical excision. Therefore , the aggressive<symptom> behavior<symptom> of the MTC should be taken into consideration in clinical practice.