 Several immunohistochemistry ( IHC) assays have been developed to assess tumor programmed death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1) expression levels in patients who are candidates for programmed death-1 ( PD-1)/ PD-L1 inhibitor therapy. The PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx kit is FDA-approved as a complementary diagnostic and CE-marked as an in vitro diagnostic device for nivolumab therapy in melanoma and specific lung cancer subtypes ( and for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck/urothelial carcinoma in Europe only). Kit availability is limited outside the United States , and its use requires the Dako Autostainer Link 48 platform , which is unavailable in many laboratories. Validated laboratory-developed tests based on 28-8 concentrated antibody outside the kit are needed. This study compared the results from PD-L1 expression level analysis across four immunohistochemistry platforms ( Dako Autostainer Link 48 , Dako Omnis , Leica Bond-III , and Ventana BenchMark ULTRA) with the 28-8 pharmDx kit in lung cancer ( multiple histologies) , melanoma , and head and neck cancer ( multiple histologies). Samples were prepared per protocol for each platform and stained using PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx kit on Dako Autostainer Link 48 , and per protocol for each platform. The control samples ( tonsil and placenta tissue; cell lines with prespecified PD-L1 expression levels) were tested to evaluate the specificity and the sensitivity of test assays. An agreement level of 0.90 with the pharmDx kit was set for each platform. Inter- and intra-assay reliability were assessed. Evaluable samples were lung cancer = 29; melanoma = 31; head and neck cancer = 30. Mean agreement was calculated for PD-L1 expression levels of ≥ 1 % , ≥ 5 % , ≥ 10 % , and ≥ 50 %. Mean overall agreement for all indications was 0.87-0.99. Inter- and intra-assay of scoring/classification repeatability was 100 %. Analysis of PD-L1 expression levels using laboratory-developed immunohistochemistry assays with 28-8 antibody may be permissible if the platform is validated using reference samples with defined expression levels.