 The PRAMI and CvLPRIT trials support preventive percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI) for multivessel coronary disease found during ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI). We assess our real-world experience of the management of multivessel disease identified during primary PCI ( PPCI) in a large UK regional centre. All STEMI patients who underwent culprit-only PPCI during the study period ( August 2011 to August 2013) were retrospectively assessed for eligibility to each trial. The two resulting groups were designated as the ` observational ' cohorts. Primary outcomes were then determined and compared with the culprit-only revascularisation cohorts from the respective published randomized controlled trials ( RCTs). A total of 1143 consecutive cases were presented during the study period. Of these , 343 would have been suitable for inclusion to PRAMI and were included in the ` observational PRAMI ' cohort; 196 patients were included in the ` observational CvLPRIT ' cohort.The ` observational PRAMI ' cohort experienced fewer primary outcome events ( 13.1 vs. 22.9 %) , cardiac deaths ( 0.6 vs. 4.3 %) and nonfatal myocardial infarctions ( 3.5 vs. 8.7 %) than the culprit-only PCI PRAMI cohort ( n = 231); there were significantly more diabetics ( P = 0.022) and anterior STEMI initial presentations in the culprit-only PCI PRAMI cohort. Primary outcomes were comparable to those of the preventive PCI PRAMI cohort.The ` observational CvLPRIT ' cohort showed no significant difference in primary outcomes over 12 months ( 16.8 vs. 21.2 %) , but significantly lower all-cause mortality ( 2 vs. 6.9 %) than the culprit-only PCI CvPLRIT cohort ( n = 146). The 30-day event rates were similar to the preventive PCI arm; the 12-month events were better than the nonpreventive , but not as good as the preventive RCT cohorts. Outcomes from culprit-only primary PCI for multivessel disease in patients selected by the RCT criteria from an all-comers population representing real-life experience are better than those published in the two main RCTs. The RCTs may have selected a high-risk population for study exaggerating the benefits of preventive PCI.