 As national opioid consumption in South Korea has soared , well-validated screening tools for opioid use disorder ( OUD) have become indispensable. The aims of our study were to evaluate OUD using the Korean version of the CAGE-Adapted to Include Drugs ( CAGE-AID) and the CAGE-Opioid ( an alternative version of the CAGE-AID) , and to investigate clinical predictors that might be useful to screen for OUD in conjunction with the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires. A single-center , prospective , observational study was performed. After linguistic validation of the Korean version of the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires , we assessed OUD in patients with chronic opioid treatment. Multivariable logistic models of the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires combined with relevant clinical predictors were established. Then , the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis of the multivariable CAGE-AID/Opioid models was conducted to assess diagnostic accuracy to screen for OUD. Next , we calculated predicted probability with > 85 % sensitivity and > 50 % specificity in each CAGE-AID and CAGE-Opioid model. Using the optimal value of the predicted probability , a cutoff score of the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires combined with the relevant clinical factors was suggested to screen for OUD. Among 201 participants , 51 patients showed ≥ 1 OUDs. In the multivariable regression model , male sex , comorbid neuropsychiatric disorder , and current heavy drinking significantly remained as clinical variables to predict OUD combined with the scores of the Korean CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaire. The area under the curve was 0.77 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.71-0.83) for the CAGE-AID model and 0.78 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.71-0.83) for the CAGE-Opioid model. The optimal predicted probability values to screen for OUD in the CAGE-AID/Opioid models were > 0.135 ( sensitivity , 0.86; specificity , 0.52) and > 0.142 ( sensitivity , 0.86; specificity , 0.53) , respectively. When we used these predictive probabilities , the cutoff score of the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires ranged from 0 to 3 , which was dependent on the presence of the relevant clinical variables in each model. In this study , one fourth of the total participants with chronic opioid treatment showed OUD in the Korean population. The multivariable models of the CAGE-AID/Opioid with sex , comorbid neuropsychiatric disorder , and current heavy drinking are valid parameters to screen for OUD , with the cutoff scores of the CAGE-AID/Opioid questionnaires ranging from 0 to 3 depending on the presence of the clinical variables.