 Bicuspid aortic valve ( BAV) anatomy is becoming an increasingly frequently encountered challenge in transcatheter aortic valve implantation ( TAVI). Bicommissural non-raphe-type BAV ( Sievers and Schmidtke Type 0) is composed morphologically of two aortic cusps with no raphe and is less common than the tricommissural or bicommissural raphe-type configurations. Precise annular sizing is a key step for successful TAVI in BAV. The challenge in bicommissural non-raphe-type BAV is that a three-dimensional structure has to be reconstructed using only two anatomical hinge points. For this reason , available software are limited when it comes to bicommissural non-raphe-type BAV. We propose that manual assessment of the aortic root in bicommissural non-raphe-type BAV using multi-planar reconstruction ( MPR) software can be performed successfully by aligning the two available hinge points and measuring the smallest identifiable annular dimensions in the transverse plane ( Fig. 1). We identified 12 patients with bicommissural non-raphe-type BAV undergoing TAVI between January 2013 and December 2017 in our high-volume institution. Our novel sizing strategy was employed prospectively in three patients-with good clinical outcomes-and evaluated retrospectively in the remainder ( Table 1). No patient suffered a central major vascular complication or required new permanent pacemaker implantation. Device success occurred in all patients except one ( post-procedural echocardiographic transvalvular gradient of 23 mmHg). In the retrospectively assessed cases , the novel annulus measure was concordant with the implanted THV size in 7 out of 9 procedures and , importantly , did not overestimate the annulus dimensions in any case. Furthermore , in two balloon-expandable THV cases the new measure may , in retrospect , have prompted consideration of a smaller implant size. To be noted , balloon sizing of the aortic annulus has additional value when selecting the valve size in BAV anatomy. Further prospective validation of this novel MDCT sizing technique is required.