 The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk factors associated with noncarious cervical<symptom> lesions<symptom> ( NCCLs) , cervical dentin hypersensitivity<disease> ( CDH) , and gingival recession ( GR) , besides the relationship among these conditions in a specific Brazilian sample population. 185 patients who attended the `` Ambulatory Program for Rehabilitation of Patients with Noncarious Cervical<symptom> Lesions<symptom> and Cervical Dentin Hypersensitivity<disease> '' were evaluated , and 5180 teeth were analyzed. The subjects filled out a form and a calibrated examiner performed the clinical exams to determine the presence of NCCLs , CDH , and GR. NCCLs were classified according to their morphology and depth , CDH levels were evaluated according to air stimuli response , and GRs were categorized according to Miller 's classification. The association of the risk factors with NCCLs , CDH , and GR was determined with the Mann-Whitney U test and multiple linear regression. For the correlations , the Spearman test was used with a 95 %- confidence level. The NCCLs , CDH , and GR distributions within the study were 88.1 % , 89.1 % , and 59.4 % , respectively. Maxillary premolars were the most affected by all three conditions. A positive correlation was found between age , NCCLs , and GR; between NCCLs and CDH; CDH and GR; GR and NCCLs. Age , gender , oral hygiene , gastroesophageal diseases , and occlusal trauma were significantly associated with the presence of all three conditions. The NCCLs and GR distributions increased with age; NCCLs , CDH , and GR had positive correlation; the lesions<symptom> ' depth and morphology contributed to high levels of sensitivity and severity of recessions; age , gender , gastric disease , and occlusal trauma were relevant factors for the occurrence of NCCLs , CDH , and GR. The increasing distribution of NCCLs , CDH , and GR is closely associated with people 's lifestyles. Thus , it is important for the clinicians to recognize the etiological factors and their most relevant associations to prevent and control such alterations , in order to improve the population 's quality of life.