 A novel concept of generating therapeutic gas , nitric oxide ( NO) via catalytic phenolic-amine `` gallolamine '' surface chemistry is developed. The concept is realized using plant polyphenol , gallic acid , and a glutathione peroxidase-like organoselenium compound cystamine or selenocystamine through one-step phenol-amine molecular assembling process. The resulting NO-generating coating with phenolic-cystamine or- selenocystamine framework showed the ability for long-term , steady and controllable range of NO release rates being unparalleled with any existing NO-releasing or NO-generating surface engineering toolkits. Developing a facile and versatile strategy for a NO-generating coating with long-term , stable and adjustable NO release is of great interest for the application of blood-contacting materials and devices. Covalent immobilization of glutathione peroxidase ( GPx)- like compound to generate NO from a material surface by exposure of endogenously existed S-nitrothiol ( RSNO) is a popular strategy. However , it is generally involved in multi-step and complicated processes. Moreover , the amount of immobilized GPx-like compounds is limited by the density of introduced reactive functional groups on a surface. Herein , we propose a novel concept of catalytic plant-inspired gallolamine surface chemistry for material-independent NO-generating coatings. The concept is realized using plant polyphenol , gallic acid , and a GPx-like organoselenium compound cystamine or selenocystamine through one-step phenol-amine molecular assembling process. Without tedious multi-step synthesis , complicated surface treatments , and leakage of toxic chemicals , our unprecedentedly simple , histocompatible and biocompatible phenolic-cystamine or- selenocystamine framework demonstrated long-term , on-demand and facile dose controls of NO generated from the engineering surfaces. These unique features of such a NO-generating coating imparted a material with ability to impressively improve anti-thrombogenicity in vivo. This work constitutes the first report of an interfacial catalytic coating based on material-independent surface chemistry by plant polyphenols. This concept not only expands the application of material-independent surface chemistry in an interfacial catalytic area , but also can be a new platform for antithrombotic materials.