 Chromosome 17p deletions ( del ( 17p)) are present in about 11 % of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma ( MM) patients and related to inferior prognosis. Bortezomib ( BTZ) , the first proteasome inhibitor anticancer drug , has a good therapeutic effect for newly diagnosed , relapsed or refractory MM , but is unable to improve the outcome of MM patients with del ( 17p). Long noncoding RNA ( lncRNA) PRAL is located on chromosome 17p , and is associated with the progression and prognosis of different types of cancers. However , little is known about its role in MM. Here , we found that PRAL was downregulated in primary MM cells and cell lines , especially in MM cells with del ( 17p) , and was associated with ISS ( international staging system) stage and Durie-Salmon stage in MM patients. Survival curves showed that MM patients with low PRAL expression had a significantly shorter disease-free survival ( DFS) and overall survival ( OS) than the patients with high PRAL expression. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that PRAL expression was an independent predictor for DFS and OS. Then cell proliferation , viability , Ki67 expression , and caspase-3 activity detection showed that PRAL promoted MM cell growth inhibition and apoptosis , and potentiated the anti-MM effect of BTZ in vitro. We further identified and confirmed that miR-210 was the target of PRAL , and miR-210 overexpression overturned the potentiation effect of PRAL on BTZ efficacy. Subsequently , bone morphogenetic protein 2 ( BMP2) was confirmed to be the target of miR-210 , and PRAL positively regulated the derepression of BMP2 by sponging miR-210. Overexpression of BMP2 potentiated the anti-MM effect of BTZ in vitro. In addition , animal experiments further confirmed that PRAL potentiated BTZ efficacy in vivo. Collectively , our study first revealed a critical role of PRAL-miR-210-BMP2 axis in MM progression , prognosis and treatment with BTZ , and PRAL could become a novel diagnostic , prognostic and therapeutic candidate for MM patients especially for the MM patients harboring del ( 17p) in the future.