 Silver nanoparticles ( Ag-NPs) can enter the brain and subsequently induce neurotoxicity. However , the toxicity of Ag-NPs on the blood-brain barrier ( BBB) and the underlying mechanism ( s) of action on the hippocampus in vivo are not well understood. To investigate Ag-NP suspension ( Ag-NPS)- induced toxicity on the BBB and neurons , Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 3 groups , and Ag-NPS , Ag-ion , and 5 % sucrose solution ( vehicle control) were administrated intravenously , respectively. After 24 h exposure to Ag-NPS , the BBB permeability was not significantly changed. However , the Ag concentrations in the brain tissues were only detected in the Ag-NPS group. Gene expression results indicated that the expression of Claudin 4 ( tight junction protein) was significantly decreased. Furthermore , astrocyte foot swelling , neuron shrinkage and Ag-NP like particles were observed under transmission electron microscopy. Global gene expression analysis showed that 502 genes were up-regulated and 703 genes were down-regulated in the hippocampi treated with Ag-NPS. In the Ag-NPS-treated group , 78 biological functions were changed based on gene ontology ( GO) and 34 signaling pathways were significantly changed using Kyoto<pathogen> Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG) pathway analysis , which were associated with the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction , cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction , calcium signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway. In comparison , 27 GO and 9 KEGG pathways were changed in the released Ag-ion-treated group. Ag-NPS decreased C1qtnf3 expression and increased Adra1d expression to affect MAPK signaling pathway , which promoted inflammation<symptom> and apoptosis in the hippocampus. Moreover , Ag-NPS significantly increased Spp1 , Cacna1s and Tacr3 mRNAs expression , which may result in intracellular calcium increasing and initiate cell death. Furthermore , Ag-NPS affected calcium signaling pathway and neuroactive ligand-receptor ( Grin2a , Drd2 , and Adra1d) , which are crucial in diverse cellular functions in the brain including cognition and neurodevelopment. These results draw our attention to the importance of Ag-NP-induced toxicity in the rat hippocampus and provide a better understanding of its toxicological mechanisms in vivo.