 Environmental factors have shown localized and scale-dependent controls over soil organic matter ( SOM) distribution in the landscape. Previous studies have explored the relationships between SOM and individual controlling factors; however , few studies have indicated the combined control from multiple environmental factors. In this study , we compared the localized and scale-dependent univariate and multivariate controls of SOM along two long transects ( northeast , NE transect and north , N transect) from China. Bivariate wavelet coherence ( BWC) between SOM and individual factors and multiple wavelet coherence ( MWC) between SOM and factor combinations were calculated. Average wavelet coherence ( AWC) and percent area of significant coherence ( PASC) were used to assess the relative dominance of individual and a combination of factors to explain SOM variations at different scales and locations. The results showed that ( in BWC analysis) mean annual temperature ( MAT) with the largest AWC ( 0.39) and PASC ( 16.23 %) was the dominant factor in explaining SOM variations along the NE transect. The topographic wetness index ( TWI) was the dominant factor ( AWC = 0.39 and PASC = 20.80 %) along the N transect. MWC identified the combination of Slope , net primary production ( NPP) and mean annual precipitation ( MAP) as the most important combination in explaining SOM variations along the NE transect with a significant increase in AWC and PASC at different scales and locations ( e.g. AWC = 0.91 and PASC = 58.03 % at all scales). The combination of TWI , NPP and normalized difference vegetation index ( NDVI) was the most influential along the N transect ( AWC = 0.83 and PASC = 32.68 % at all scales). The results indicated that the combined controls of environmental factors on SOM variations at different scales and locations in a large area can be identified by MWC. This is promising for a better understanding of the multivariate controls in SOM variations at larger spatial scales and may improve the capability of digital soil mapping.