 Eventhough it is well established that materials can promote stem cell differentiation , hard tissue formation is a templated process for which little is known regarding the in vitro process. We have found that surface curvature enables self-assembly of triple helical collagen fibrils into banded bundle structures from rat tail and human collagen secreted by dental pulp stem cells. Collagen fibrils were adsorbed at 4 °C on spun cast flat P4VP films and electrospun fibers. Protein adsorption was observed on both surfaces , but large banded bundles with a uniform spacing of approximately 55 nm were present only on the fiber surfaces. SEM/EDS mapping showed that dental pulp stem cells plated on the same surfaces biomineralized copiously only along the electrospun fibers. Raman spectroscopy indicated that despite the presence of adsorbed collagen on the flat surfaces , only the deposits present on the fibrous surface had a protein to hydroxyl apatite ratio similar to natural dentin from human teeth. RT-PCR indicated up regulation of collagen , osteocalcin and dental sialophosphate protein , confirming that odontogenic differentiation is promoted only on the fiber scaffolds. Taken together the results indicate that , in addition to surface chemistry , the supermolecular structure of ECM collagen , which is essential in directing DPSCs differentiation and templating biomineralization , can be modified by the underlying surface morphology. The past decade has been focused efforts in the use of dental pulp stem cells ( DPSC) for dental regeneration. Eventhough the factors required for DPSCs differentiation have been well studied , actual mineral deposition , positively identified as dentin , has not been achieved in vitro. Hard tissue is known to be a templated process in vivo where the mineral to protein ratio is tightly controlled via proteins which aid in collagen conformation and mineral sequestration. Here we show that one can mimic this process in vitro via the combination of materials selection and morphology. The material chemistry is shown to induce genetic upregulation the genes responsible for collagen and osteocalcin , while Raman spectroscopy confirms the translation and adsorption the proteins on the substrate. But , we show that the simple presence of collagen is not enough to template actual biomineral deposition similar to that found in vivo. Mineral deposition is a complicated process templated on collagen bundles and mediated by specific sibling proteins that determine the protein to mineral ratio. Here we show that surface curvature can reduce the barrier to collagen bundle formation , directing DPSC differentiation along odontogenic lineage , and subsequently templating actual dentin , comparable to that found in vivo in human teeth.