 Duration of use may be a modifiable risk factor for central venous catheter-associated bloodstream infection in newborn infants. Early planned removal of peripherally inserted central catheters ( PICCs) is recommended as a strategy to reduce the incidence of infection and its associated morbidity and mortality. To determine the effectiveness of early planned removal of PICCs ( up to two weeks after insertion) compared to an expectant approach or a longer fixed duration in preventing bloodstream infection and other complications in newborn infants. We searched of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL; 2018 , Issue 4) , Ovid MEDLINE , Embase , Maternity & Infant Care Database , and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature ( CINAHL) ( until April 2018) , and conference proceedings and previous reviews. Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials that assessed the effect of early planned removal of umbilical venous catheters ( up to two weeks after insertion) compared to an expectant management approach or a longer fixed duration in preventing bloodstream infection and other complications in newborn infants. Two review authors assessed trial eligibility independently. We planned to analyse any treatment effects in the individual trials and report the risk ratio and risk difference for dichotomous data and mean difference for continuous data , with respective 95 % confidence intervals. We planned to use a fixed-effect model in meta-analyses and explore potential causes of heterogeneity in sensitivity analyses. We planned to assess the quality of evidence for the main comparison at the outcome level using `` Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development and Evaluation '' ( GRADE) methods. We did not identify any eligible randomised controlled trials. There are no trial data to guide practice regarding early planned removal versus expectant management of PICCs in newborn infants. A simple and pragmatic randomised controlled trial is needed to resolve the uncertainty about optimal management in this common and important clinical dilemma.