 Some of lizard species have the ability to lose their tail in order to defend against predators and regenerate the new tail. Lizard 's regenerated tail has attracted scientists ' attention for unraveling the regeneration process , but less information is known about the cellular characterization and cell growth properties of original tail. This research aimed to report cell culture and banking process of rough-tailed gecko or Cyrtopodion scabrum 's original tail cell sample from inner tissue without skin using tissue explant technique. For banking reports , it is essential to analyze this cells ' potential to proliferate , to investigate biological aspects such as cell culture features , differentiation and chromosome number and to report its species identification and quality control. To achieve optimal growth conditions , three different temperatures for incubation including 18 , 23 and 37 °C and two different media including DMEM and L-15 were applied. The expanded cells were studied for their potential to adipose and osteoblast differentiation. Results indicated that lizard 's original tail cells could be successfully obtained by explant technique. The cells demonstrated fibroblast like morphology with population doubling times of approximately 24 ± 0.5 h. Karyotyping analysis showed a distribution of 2n = 40 chromosome number for this cell line. The comparison of different incubation media and temperatures showed that cell growth is equally optimal in all mentioned conditions according to growth curves. Adipose and osteoblast differentiation was obviously observed in these cells which confirms the hint of stem-ness in the produced mixed cells. According to cell banking policies , produced cells were also checked for bacterial , fungal , yeast and mycoplasma<pathogen> contaminations and no contamination was observed. Multiplex PCR for identification of species confirmed the species of lizard with no cross-contamination with other cells in the cell bank. Establishment of authenticated and well-characterized lizard 's original tail cell line will provide a valuable source for subsequent in vitro regenerative research and molecular studies which are not feasible in in vivo methods. This finding will allow us to get an opportunity to create and preserve a new collection of lizard cell lines in the future.