 Gastric cancer ( GC) is the most common gastrointestinal malignancy , causing cancer-related deaths in East Asia. MicroRNAs ( miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs aberrantly expressed in human tumors. In this study , we aim to investigate the roles of miR-204 in the epithelial to mesenchymal transition ( EMT)- associated chemosensitivity. The expression of miR-204 was detected in clinical tumor samples and GC cell lines by real time PCR. Tumor cell 's growth , invasion , and migration were measured by MTT assay , wound<disease><symptom> healing assay , and transwell invasion assay , respectively. Western blot method was used to detect the protein levels of indicated genes. Luciferase reporter assay was performed to validate the target gene of miR-204. The in vivo role of miR-204 was measured using a xenograft mouse model of GC. By comparing the expressions of miR-204 in human gastric tumors and their adjacent normal tissues , it was disclosed that miR-204 was significantly downregulated in gastric tumors. Moreover , miR-204 was downregulated in multiple GC cell lines compared with normal gastric epithelial cells. Overexpression of miR-204 suppressed GC cells ' proliferation , invasion , and migration. It is noteworthy that 5-FU treatments induced miR-204 expression and suppressed TGF-β pathway. By establishment of 5-FU resistant GC cell line , it was revealed that miR-204 was significantly downregulated in 5-FU resistant GC cells , representing mesenchymal features with downregulation of epithelial marker , while mesenchymal markers were upregulated. We identified TGFBR2 as a direct target of miR-204 by Western blot method and luciferase assay in GC cells and tumor samples as well. In addition , overexpression of miR-204 sensitized GC cells to 5-FU in vitro. Xenograft experiments demonstrated that the combination of miR-204 and 5-FU efficiently inhibited tumor growth and improved survival rate of mice as well. Eventually , we illustrated the restoration of TGFBR2 in miR-204 overexpression GC cells , which recovered resistance to 5-FU treatments compared with miR-204 overexpression GC cells. This study describes a miRNA-based therapeutic strategy against 5-FU resistance in GC , contributing to the development of anti-chemoresistance therapeutic agents.