 Approximately 90 % of pediatric emergency care is provided in community emergency departments ( CEDs) that care for both adults and children. Paradoxically , the majority of pediatric emergency medicine knowledge generation , quality improvement work and clinical training occurs in children 's hospitals. There is a paucity of information of perceptions on pediatric care from CED providers. This information is needed to guide the development of strategies to improve CED pediatric readiness. To explore inter-professional CED providers ' perceptions of caring for pediatric patients. A pre-participation survey collected data on demographics , experience and comfort in caring for children. Emergency pediatric simulations were then utilized to prime inter-professional teams for debriefings. These discussions underwent qualitative analysis by three blinded authors who coded transcripts into themes through an inductive method derived from grounded theory. The other authors participated in confirmability and dependability checks. 171 community hospital providers from six CEDs completed surveys ( 49 % nurses , 22 % physicians , 23 % technicians). The majority were PALS trained ( 70 %) and experienced less than five pediatric resuscitations in their careers ( 61 %). Most self-reported comfort in caring for acutely ill and injured children. From the debriefings , three major challenge themes emerged: ( 1) knowledge and skill limitations attributed to infrequency of training and actual clinical events , ( 2) the emotional toll of caring for a sick child , and ( 3) acknowledgment of pediatric specific quality and safety deficits. Subthemes focused on causes and potential mitigating factors contributing to these challenges. A solution theme highlighted novel partnering opportunities with local children 's hospitals. Inter-professional CED providers perceive that caring for pediatric patients is challenging due to case infrequency , the emotional toll of caring for sick children , and pediatric quality and safety deficits in their systems. These areas of focus can be used to generate specific strategies for improving CED pediatric readiness. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.