 Understanding the integrated effect of external factors ( e.g. , human activities) and internal factors ( e.g. , hydrodynamics , sediment properties) on metal ( loid) distributions is necessary for relevant decision-makers to develop river basin management strategies. In attempts to understand the possible causes of the distribution of nine target metal ( loid) s in riverbed sediments across Xijiang River basin in China , we grouped and portrayed the multiple metal ( loid) distributions by calculating metal ( loid) 's normalised-and-weighted average concentrations , and then canonical correlation analysis combined with a series of statistical operations , collectively called optimized CCA analysis , was applied to quantify the strength of relationship between multiple metal ( loid) distribution and integrated effect of internal-external factors. Results showed that the target metal ( loid) s can be divided into three groups according to their distribution patterns: Group A ( including Zn , As , Cd , Sb and Pb) , Group B ( including Cr , Ni and Cu) and Group C ( including Tl). Among them , metal ( loid) s in Group A was significantly enriched in comparison with the reference values of Chinese sediments , and the wide-ranging accumulation of Cd and Sb in the whole study area needs paying great attention to. For those metals in natural states ( e.g. , metals in Group B) , the affinity of sediment ( e.g. , Fe and Mn oxides) is responsible for their distributions. By contrast , when metal ( loid) s ( e.g. , metal ( loid) s in Group A and Group C) had obvious anthropogenic sources , the interferences of anthropogenic inputs ( e.g. , non-ferrous metal enterprises ' waste-discharging activities) and the specific sedimentary characteristics ( e.g. karst topography and low-energy hydrodynamic depositional conditions) in study area can weaken the correlation between the binding affinity of sediment and the contents of metal ( loid) s. The optimized CCA analysis can be an alternative and advantageous statistical operation for determining the main types of causes of multiple metal ( loid) distribution in the case of observations with relatively low case-per-variable ratios.