 Three different kinds of sinomenine in situ liquid crystal were prepared for different prescriptions , to investigate the rheological properties before and after in situ treatment and evaluate its feasibility for embolization. Rheological experiments were carried out with cone plate fixtures. Both the steady-state rheological and non-steady-state rheological properties of in-situ gels and the swelling gels were studied and compared. Steady-state rheological study results showed that all the three liquid embolic agents were non-newtonian fluid before and after in situ treatment , which would become less ropy when they were pressed with shear stress; their viscosities differed by 2-5 orders of magnitude. It had a yield value of about 10 Pa before in situ treatment and about 4 500 Pa after in situ treatment. All the six systems had thixotropy while their dynamic viscosities were not influenced by the shear rate , all less than 0.3 Pa · s before in situ treatment more than 1 Pa · s after in situ treatment , differing by an order of magnitude. The results of temperature sweeping showed a slight decrease with a steady rate in viscosity within the range of 10-50 °C , differing by 3-4 orders of magnitude. The results of unsteady rheology showed that there was no obvious linear viscoelastic region in the three kinds of agents , indicating the properties of liquid. After in situ treatment , their linear viscoelastic range γ < 1 % ( No. 3 was 5 %) , and their elastic modulus G ' was larger than the viscous modulus G '' , indicating the properties of solid. Frequency scanning results showed that for the systems at low frequencies , G '' > G ' , system viscosity in a dominant position; while at high frequencies , G ' > G '' , system elasticity in a dominant position. The results of compound viscosity test also proved that the liquid embolic agent in situ can form a cubic liquid crystal ( the structure of No. 3 was destroyed after in situ treatment). The DHR-2 rheometer was used to investigate the rheological properties of in situ gels with three different prescriptions. The method is simple and the result is reliable , which can provide more theoretical reference for the