 Epithelial ovarian neoplasms are a heterogeneous group including tumor subsets with distinct clinicopathologic and molecular features. Recent evidence from molecular and genomic studies suggests that whereas low-grade serous carcinomas and high-grade serous carcinomas likely develop on two separate pathways , the low-grade serous carcinomas and serous borderline ovarian tumors may represent various stages of the same developmental continuum. The transformation of borderline ovarian tumors into an invasive neoplasm is associated with an array of molecular changes , inter alia controlled by p53 and PI3K/Akt pathway , as well as with a decrease in E-cadherin expression. The latter implies that epithelial-mesenchymal transition is a critical determinant of borderline ovarian tumor invasiveness. The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of transcription factors involved in epithelial-mesenchymal transition: SNAIL , SLUG , TWIST 1 , TWIST 2 , ZEB 1 , and ZEB 2 in borderline tumors and type I ovarian cancers. The study included tissue specimens from 42 patients with histopathologically verified ovarian masses. The expressions for SLUG , TWIST 1 , ZEB1 , and ZEB 2 were scored based on the nuclear staining , and the expressions of SNAIL and TWIST 2 based on the cytoplasmic and/or nuclear staining. The proportions of ovarian tumors with the immunoexpression of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition transcription factors were 85.7 % for SNAIL , 100 % for SLUG , 9.5 % for TWIST 1 , 95.2 % for TWIST 2 , 23.8 % for ZEB 1 , and 0 % for ZEB 2. The expression patterns of SNAIL , SLUG , TWIST , and ZEB identified in this study suggest that both serous borderline ovarian tumors and type I ovarian cancers undergo dynamic epithelial-mesenchymal interconversions. Our findings obtained in the two groups of tumors which shared some etiopathogenic pathways imply that the expression of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition transcription factors may be activated at early stages of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition , and thus these molecules may play a pivotal role in the development of both serous borderline ovarian tumors and type I ovarian cancer.