 The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of femtosecond laser irradiation , sandblasting , or acid etching treatments on the surface roughness of ceramic-resin composites and also shear bond strength ( SBS) with and without silanization to a resin cement. Samples of Vita Enamic ( VE; Vita Zahnfabrik , Bad S채ckingen , Germany) and Lava Ultimate ( LU; 3M ESPE , Seefeld , Germany) were classified into control ( no treatment) , sandblasting , hydrofluoric acid , and femtosecond laser groups ( n = 30). Surface roughness was determined using two-dimensional contact profilometry. Surface topography was evaluated using a three-dimensional contact profilometer and a scanning electron microscope. Then groups were divided into two subgroups with similar surface roughness values , including control ( C) , control + silane ( C-S) , sandblasting ( SB) , sandblasting + silane ( SB-S) , hydrofluoric acid ( HF) , hydrofluoric acid + silane ( HF-S) , femtosecond laser ( FS) , and femtosecond laser + silane ( FS-S) groups ( n = 15). Panavia F 2.0 resin cement was applied to the sample surfaces using an SDI SBS rig ( SDI Limited , Bayswater , Australia). The SBS test was performed after water storage ( 24 h , 37 째C) and thermocycles ( 2000 cycles , 5 째C to 55 째C) , and failure modes were evaluated. The highest surface roughness was observed in the FS group , and the highest SBS was observed in the FS-S group for both VE and LU ( p < 0.001). Silanization improved the SBS of VE significantly ( p < 0.001) in all surface treatments but did not improve that of LU except in the FS group ( p = 0.004). There was a significantly moderate negative correlation in the VE/SB group ( p = 0.012) and a moderate positive correlation in the VE/HF group ( p = 0.049). Femtosecond laser irradiation was found to be more effective than sandblasting or acid etching in increasing the surface roughness , and it was also the most effective surface treatment with silanization on the SBS of a resin cement to the ceramic-resin composites.