 It has been widely reported that ketamine rescues chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior , but the underlying cellular mechanisms of the rapid antidepressant actions of ketamine remain largely unclear. Both male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were used and received modified learned helplessness paradigm to induce depression-like behavior. Depression-like behavior was assayed and manipulated using forced swim tests , sucrose preference tests and pharmacological microinjection. We conducted whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings in the midbrain ventrolateral periaqueductal gray ( vlPAG) neurons. Surface and cytosolic glutamate receptor 1 ( GluR1) α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid ( AMPA) receptor expression were analyzed using Western blotting. Phosphorylated GluR1 expression was quantified using Western blotting analysis. The results showed that a single systemic administration of a ketamine metabolite ( 2R ,6 R)- hydroxynorketamine ( 2R,6R-HNK) rapidly rescued chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior and persisted for up to 21 days. Consistently , the chronic stress-induced diminished glutamatergic transmission and surface GluR1 expression in the vlPAG were also reversed by a single systemic injection of ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK. Furthermore , bath application of ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK increased the frequency and amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents ( mEPSCs) in the vlPAG. Further evidence for the antidepressant action of ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK is provided by the finding that microinjection of ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK into the vlPAG exhibited a rapid-acting and long-lasting antidepressant effect. This antidepressant effect of ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK was prevented by the intra-vlPAG microinjection of AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX. Together , the current results provide evidence that ( 2R ,6 R)- HNK rescues chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior with rapid-acting and long-lasting antidepressant effects through enhancement of AMPA receptor-mediated transmission in the vlPAG.