 Qualitative research using semi-structured interviews. To explore , from a patient perspective , factors influencing a patient 's decision-making process and the decision to have surgery for lumbar disc herniation. Since strong evidence favoring surgical over non-surgical treatment is lacking and firm guidelines regarding the optimal timing of surgery are not available , it is essential to involve patients in the decision-making process. Thus the elements that might affect the decision-making process and the decision to have surgery must be identified. Using a hermeneutic-phenomenological approach , 14 patients who were referred for primary surgery for lumbar disc herniation were interviewed. Interviews were transcribed and analyzed using a meaning-condensation method to identify themes influencing a patient 's decision-making process and the decision to have surgery for lumbar disc herniation. Four main themes that could directly or indirectly influence the patients ' decision-making process were identified: 1) Patient information: patients conceptions about treatment were not always based on sufficient information; 2) Accelerated workflows: some patients needed time to process the information given , which may be limited due to accelerated workflows; 3) Power imbalance: patients can be reluctant to challenge the system , as they do not want to offend , which can be seen as a power imbalance between clinicians and patients; and 4) Personal past experience: experience , about treatment options from i.e. close relatives , can impact patients thoughts about possible treatments. Several factors can influence patients ' decision-making process and the decision itself: the amount and quality of information received as compared to their pre-conceived notions , the amount of time given to consider their decision , reluctance to challenge the system and offend the healthcare provider , and past personal experience. Understanding these complex factors will help clinicians to better support patients choosing between surgical and non-surgical treatment for lumbar herniated disc. 5.