 Treatise on Febrile Diseases is one of the greatest classics in traditional Chinese medicine. Currently , so many key scientific problems including unclear connotation of the original , dosage of Chinese herbal medicine , and the essence of the six meridians were identified. On the basis of years of clinical experience in critical care medicine , it was advocated that the connotation of Treatise on Febrile Diseases should be explored from the perspective of critical care medicine and integrative medicine. It was identified that , the traditional study from the perspective of pathogenesis and textual research could n't meet the current clinical needs due to its repeated deduction and circular argument in conceptual terms and unclear diagnosis and prognosis of modern diseases. The concept of exogenous febrile disease is the narrow sense , the essence of which may be acute febrile infectious<disease> diseases<disease>. Treatise on Febrile Diseases is a monographs for critical care medicine. The clinical manifestation of so many critical care medicine can be identified in Treatise on Febrile Diseases. The distinction standard of Treatise on Febrile Diseases and Synopsis of Golden Chamber is not external injury but contagious disease. The dosage problem in Treatise on Febrile Diseases mainly refers to large dose. The essence of six meridians in Treatise on Febrile Diseases is severe infection. Six meridians are different stages of severe infection , including the inflammation-based three Yang stages and deficiency-based three Yin stages. Additionally , the six meridians could be recognized by look , while not speculation. The struggle between cold and warm schools could be unified based on our research. The most direct and fundamental methods in studying Treatise on Febrile Diseases lies in critical care medicine and integrative medicine. The modern research of Treatise on Febrile Diseases is intensely calling for new treatment principle based on pathogenesis combined with pathology and property combined with pharmacology. Therefore , cultivation of ability in critical care medicine and integrative medicine should be emphasized in future studies.