 The poor regenerative capacity of descending neurons is one of the main causes of the lack of recovery after spinal<disease> cord injury ( SCI). Thus , it is of crucial importance to find ways to promote axonal regeneration. In addition , the prevention of retrograde degeneration leading to the atrophy/death of descending neurons is an obvious prerequisite to activate axonal regeneration. Lampreys show an amazing regenerative capacity after SCI. Recent histological work in lampreys suggested that GABA , which is massively released after a SCI , could promote the survival of descending neurons. Here , we aimed to study if GABA , acting through GABAB receptors , promotes the survival and axonal regeneration of descending neurons of larval sea lampreys after a complete SCI. First , we used in situ hybridization to confirm that identifiable descending neurons of late-stage larvae express the gabab1 subunit of the GABAB receptor. We also observed an acute increase in the expression of this subunit in descending neurons after SCI , which further supported the possible role of GABA and GABAB receptors in promoting the survival and regeneration of these neurons. So , we performed gain and loss of function experiments to confirm this hypothesis. Treatments with GABA and baclofen ( GABAB agonist) significantly reduced caspase activation in descending neurons 2 weeks after a complete SCI. Long-term treatments with GABOB ( a GABA analogue) and baclofen significantly promoted axonal regeneration of descending neurons after SCI. These data indicate that GABAergic signalling through GABAB receptors promotes the survival and regeneration of descending neurons after SCI. Finally , we used morpholinos against the gabab1 subunit to knockdown the expression of the GABAB receptor in descending neurons. Long-term morpholino treatments caused a significant inhibition of axonal regeneration. This shows that endogenous GABA promotes axonal regeneration after a complete SCI in lampreys by activating GABAB receptors.