 To investigate the safety and efficacy of high dose tigecycline for treatment of fibric neutrope-nia in acute leukemia<disease> patients after ineffectiveness of carbapenems chemotherapy of acute leukemia<disease>. The clinical data of 41 acute leukemia<disease> patients with febrile ncutropenia received high dose tigecycline ( 100 mg q12h) , who showed ineffectiveness of treatment with carbapenems , from 20151.30-2017.1. 29 in our hospital were collected and analyzed retrospectively. The temperature , inflammatory indicators as well as hepatic and renal function before and after treatment with tigecycline were compared. Among 41 patients treated with tigecycline due to ineffectiveness of treatment with carbapenems , the infection had been controled in 34 cases , 7 patients died due to ineffectiveness of anti-infective treatment , these patients all were patients with relapse/refractory leukemia<disease>. 41 patients were examined etialogically , as a result , 22 patients showed possitive , among them the gram-negative bacill was found in 11 ( 11/22) cases. The average deferves counce time of tigecycline was 28.2 ± 12.0 hours. The temperature of patients treated with tigecycline for 48 hours decreased significantly ( P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in calcitonin and C-reactive protein levels after treatment with tigecycline ( P > 0.05) , but cacitonin level displayed decrease tread. There was no hepatic and renal impairment after treatment with tigecycline , but levels of as partate aminotransferase , total bilirubin and blood area nitrogen in blood significantly increased as compared with levels before treatment with tigecycline ( P < 0.05). The application of high dose tigecycline for treatment of febrile neutropenia is safety and effective. The high dose tigecycline can decrease the temperature , calcitonin and C-reactive protein levels , and can control infection without the hepatic and renal impairment , but it needs to be confimed by more prospective studies.