 Type-2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM) is one of the most common diseases that endangers public health. T2DM may lead to diabetes-related microvascular complications , which in turn play a major role in exacerbating macrovascular complications. This study evaluates an insulin dose titration model and factors that impact insulin dose adjustment in Chinese adults with type-2 diabetes , who receive basal insulin in real-world settings. A total of 19,894 patients from the ORBIT study were included. These patients were divided into four groups , according to the type of insulin dose adjustment: no insulin titration ( group A) , self-titration ( group B) , physician-led insulin titration ( group C) , and combined physician and patient-led insulin titration ( group D). Data were collected and compared at baseline and after six months of treatment. A total of 12,865 patients completed the visits and were included in the analysis. Among these patients , 3,187 ( 24.8 %) , 1,971 ( 15.3 %) , 5,165 ( 40.1 %) and 2,542 ( 19.8 %) patients were included in groups A , B , C and D , respectively. The multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that the duration of diabetes , body mass index , microvascular complications , inpatient days , HbA1C level and self-monitoring of blood glucose ( SMBG) were positively correlated with insulin titration in group B , C and D , compared with group A. The number of inpatient days and outpatient visits were positively correlated with dose adjustment for physician-led titration , while this was negatively correlated for self-titration. Self-titration encouraged by physicians and home blood glucose monitoring were positively correlated with self-titration and the combined physician and patient-led titration. High HbA1C level , SMBG , long disease duration , microvascular complications , and the encouragement of physicians while initiating insulin use prompt patients to perform dose adjustments in real-world settings. Physicians should encourage patients to adjust their insulin dose by themselves , actively monitor their blood glucose , and frequently repeat SMBG for better glycemic control.