 HIV<pathogen> prevention interventions that reduce sexual risk behaviors among young Black men who have sex with men ( YBMSM) , the most severely affected population in the United States , are critical for reducing disparities in HIV<pathogen> infection. However , there are few theory-based sexual risk reduction interventions designed specifically for YBMSM. This study tested the applicability of the Integrated Behavioral Model ( IBM) , which theorizes that behavioral intentions mediate the relationship between psychosocial constructs and health behavior on condomless anal intercourse ( CAI) among YBMSM. To test key constructs of the IBM , analyses were conducted with baseline data from the HealthMpowerment ( HMP) randomized controlled trial. Logistic regression was used to examine the relationships between condom use self-efficacy , norms , attitudes , intentions , and environmental constraints , and CAI. Mediation analysis was conducted to determine if condom use intentions mediated the relationship between psychosocial constructs ( i.e. , condom use self-efficacy , norms , and attitudes) and CAI. Overall 55.7 % reported one or more acts of CAI with a male partner in the past 3 months. Those who reported CAI in the 3 months prior to the baseline survey reported lower self-efficacy for condom use , lower condom use norms , more negative attitudes toward condom use , and lower condom use intentions at baseline than those who reported no CAI. In mediation analysis , the relationships between CAI and self-efficacy for condom use ( estimated indirect effect = -0.004 ( SE = 0.002)) , condom use norms ( -0.002 ( SE = 0.001)) and attitudes toward condom use ( -0.005 ( SE = 0.002)) were mediated by condom use intentions. This study applied the IBM to sexual risk behavior among a sample of YBMSM. Results indicate that the relationships between condom use self-efficacy , norms , and attitudes , and CAI were mediated by condom use intentions. Future theory-informed interventions should focus on increasing self-efficacy for condom use , condom use norms , attitudes toward condom use , and condom use intentions to reduce CAI among YBMSM.