 To investigate the effects of endomorphin-1 ( EM-1) on the maturation phenotype , cytokine secretion , T cell proliferation and TLR4 expression in human peripheral blood dendritic cells ( PBDCs) stimulated and induced by high glucose , and to explore the regulatory mechanism of EM-1 on DC immune function. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMNCs) were induced into immature dendritic cells ( imDCs). The high glucose was used as the stimulating factor , and the EM-1 was used as the interventional factor. Then , the experiments were divided into normal glucose group ( NG group) , high glucose group ( HG group) , high glucose plus EM-1 group ( EM group) and high glucose plus EM-1 and naloxone group ( Nal group) , respectively. The PBDC 's phenotype changes were detected by flow cytometry; ELISA was used to detect the changes of cytokines secreted by PBDCs co-cultured with autologous lymphocytes; CFSE was used to detect the proliferation of T lymphocytes. TLR4 expression on PBDC surface was detected by RT-PCR. Compared with HG group , the expression of PBDC surface molecules CD86 , CCR7 and CD36 was up-regulated in EM group ( P < 0.01) , while the change of CD83 expression was not statistically significant. However , IL-12 and IL-10 secreted by PBDCs and the proliferation index of T-lymphocytes stimulated by PBDCs were both decreased in EM group. Compared with EM group , the expression of CD86 , CCR7 and CD36 was decreased in Nal group ( P < 0.01) , while the expression of CD83 was almost unchanged ( P > 0.05). T-lymphocyte proliferation index was increased very significantly in Nal group ( P < 0.01). The gray ratio of TLR4 in HG group was higher than that in NG group , while the gray ratio in EM group 's was very significantly lower than that in HG group 's ( P < 0.01). These results indicate that the high glucose can promote the expression of PBDC TLR4 , while the EM-1 inhibits the expression of TLR4. EM-1 up-regulates the expression of PBDC surface molecules CD86 , CCR7 and CD36 stimulated and induced by high glucose , but inhibites the induction of PBDC to maturity by high glucose. And the secreted inflammatory cytokines IL-12 and IL-10 inhibites the proliferation of T lymphocytes derived from PBDCs , while naloxone inhibites the effect of EM-1. EM-1 inhibites the expression of TLR4 on PBDC surface induced by high glucose.