 Accumulating evidence suggests that autophagy plays a protective role in chondrocytes and prevents cartilage degeneration in osteoarthritis ( OA). The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of diazoxide on chondrocyte death and cartilage degeneration and to determine whether these effects are correlated to autophagy in experimental OA. In this study , a cellular OA model was established by stimulating SW1353 cells with interleukin 1β. A rat OA model was generated by transecting the anterior cruciate ligament combined with the resection of the medial menisci , followed by treatment with diazoxide or diazoxide combination with 3-methyladenine. The percentage of viable cells was evaluated using calcein-acetoxymethyl/propidium iodide double staining. The messenger RNA expression levels of collagen type II alpha 1 chain ( COL2A1) , matrix metalloproteinase 13 ( MMP-13) , TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 1 ( TIMP-1) , and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 5 ( ADAMTS5) were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The cartilage thickness and joint space were evaluated using ultrasound. SW1353 cell degeneration and autophagosomes were observed using transmission electron microscopy. The expression levels of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 ( LC3) , beclin-1 , P62 , COL2A1 , and MMP-13 were evaluated using immunofluorescence staining and Western blot analysis. Diazoxide significantly attenuated articular cartilage degeneration and SW1353 cell death in experimental OA. The restoration of autophagy was observed in the diazoxide-treated group. The beneficial effects of diazoxide were markedly blocked by 3-methyladenine. Diazoxide treatment also modulated the expression levels of OA-related biomarkers. These results demonstrated that diazoxide exerted a chondroprotective effect and attenuated cartilage degeneration by restoring autophagy via modulation of OA-related biomarkers in experimental OA. Diazoxide treatment might be a promising therapeutic approach to prevent the development of OA.