 Cross-sectional study. To evaluate morphometric variations of the cervical spine in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy ( CSM) using a standard technique of dynamic magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) , to assess the inter- and intra-observer reliability of measurements of morphometric parameters based on this imaging , and to compare the resulting measurements with those previously published. Since dynamic factors may contribute to the etiology and severity of CSM , dynamic ( flexion-extension) MRI may be useful to better evaluate for spinal stenosis and cord compromise. Dynamic cervical MRI was obtained using a standard protocol with the neck in neutral , flexion , and extension positions. The morphometric parameters considered were anterior length of the spinal<disease> cord ( ALSC) , posterior length of the spinal<disease> cord ( PLSC) , spinal canal diameter ( SCD) and spinal<disease> cord width ( SCW). Two observers analyzed the parameters independently , and the inter- and intra-observer reliabilities were assessed by the intraclass correlation coefficient ( ICC). 18 patients were included in the study and all completed the dynamic MRI acquisition protocol. The inter- and intra-observer reliabilities demonstrated `` almost perfect agreement '' ( ICC > 0.9 , p < 0.001) for ALSC and PLSC in all positions. The SCD had inter- and intra-observer reliability classified as `` almost perfect agreement '' ( ICC: 0.83-0.98 , p < 0.001 and ICC: 0.90-0.99 , p < 0.001 , respectively) in all positions. The SCW had inter- and intra-observer reliability classified as `` substantial agreement '' ( ICC: 0.73-0.94 , p < 0.001 and ICC: 0.79-0.96 , p < 0.001 , respectively) in all positions. ALSC and PLSC in neutral , flexion and extension positions from the present study were significantly greater compared to the measurements previously published ( P < 0.001). The dynamic MRI protocol presented was safe and may allow a more complete evaluation of variations in the cervical spine in patients with CSM than traditional MRI protocols. The morphometric parameters based on this protocol demonstrated excellent inter- and intra-observer reliabilities. 4.