 The purpose of this white paper is to describe the rehabilitation engineering professions , specifically rehabilitation engineers , rehabilitation technologists/assistive technologists , and rehabilitation technicians. An ad-hoc committee was convened by the Rehabilitation Engineering and Technologists ( RE&T) Professional Standards Group ( PSG) at the 2013 annual meeting , RESNA Conference in Seattle , Washington. The ad-hoc committee consists of rehabilitation engineering professionals who have experience working in a variety of environments , and with a multitude of professionals. Since the initiation of the ad-hoc committee , versions of this document were published in the Proceedings of the 2014 RESNA Conference and the 2015 RESNA Conference , and feedback has been incorporated into the document from external stakeholders. Furthermore , the white paper was published on the RESNA Website in August of 2015 for public comment. This white paper is the synthesis of the work from the ad-hoc committee , as well as the feedback obtained at the two conference presentations , the public comment period and a review by the RESNA Board of Directors. The white paper is not meant as a systematic review of the literature , nor a formal research process. However , the literature , including gray literature , and expert opinion heavily influenced the development of the white paper.The ad-hoc committee reviewed over 80 different sources in preparing the white paper ( see Appendix). The white paper defines the role of rehabilitation engineering professionals based on descriptions found in the literature , and historical experience of stakeholders. Furthermore , it describes the role of rehabilitation engineering professionals in numerous work settings , and describes current and future education and training opportunities. Finally , the white paper provides multiple case studies on the role of rehabilitation engineering professionals in a transdisciplinary assistive technology service delivery process. The white paper is meant as a guide to describe the typical rehabilitation engineering professions in their most generic forms. While there will be exceptions to the rule , the consensus accumulated in this paper and the iterative methods used to aggregate the content , states a majority perspective of current rehabilitation engineering professionals. This document provides a framework for future discussions on the advancement of rehabilitation engineering with the goal of improving the quality of life of individuals with disabilities through the application of science and technology.