 Chronic intermittent hypoxia ( CIH) , as the foremost pathophysiological change of obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA) , contributes to continued deterioration in renal function. Nucleotide-binding domain like receptor protein 3 ( NLRP3) inflammasome is a multiprotein complex that triggers innate immune responses to infection and cell stress through activation of caspase-1 and maturation of inflammatory pro-interleukin-1β cytokine. Emerging evidence indicates that inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome ameliorates renal injury. Nevertheless , it is uncertain whether NLRP3 inflammasome participates in CIH-induced renal injury. The molecular mechanisms modulating NLRP3 inﬂammasome activation remain to be elucidated. Compared with wild-type mice , NLRP3 knockout mice dramatically protected them from kidney injury , as indicated by the restoration of creatinine levels , lessened histopathological alterations , and the suppression of macrophages inﬁltration stained with F4/80. NLRP3 deﬁciency notably reversed CIH-induced oxidative stress ( malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase) , concomitantly with the abrogated apoptosis-related proteins and proinflammatory signaling pathway. Consistently , NLRP3-deﬁcient tubular cells remarkably inhibited reactive oxygen species generation and NLRP3 inﬂammasome activation. Furthermore , our study revealed that microRNA-155 ( miR-155) was augmented in the renal tissue and HK-2 cells exposed to CIH. In addition , we investigated the role of miR-155 in the regulation of NLRP3 inﬂammasome. Inhibition of miR-155 suppressed the CIH-induced NLRP3 inﬂammasome activation in renal tubular cells , whereas overexpression of miR-155 promoted oxidation and enhanced NLRP3 pathway. Collectively , we demonstrated that miR-155 might be a positive-regulator of NLRP3 pathway by inhibiting the targeted FOXO3a gene. These results established a link between the miR-155/ FOXO3a pathway and the NLRP3 inﬂammasome , suggesting pharmacological blockage of NLRP3 as a potential therapeutic strategy for OSA-associated chronic kidney disease.