 Research on aging in Prader-Willi syndrome<disease><symptom> ( PWS) is limited , although people with PWS are living longer. Individuals with PWS present with high fat mass , low lean mass , and low levels of physical activity ( PA). Previous reports in children and young adults with PWS show inadequate nutrient intake and body fat percentage indicating obesity. Previous studies in PWS rarely included individuals beyond young adulthood , especially studies conducted in the United States. This study includes adults from 18 to 62 years of age , and includes 19 of the estimated 60 adult individuals with PWS in Oklahoma. Because individuals with PWS are living longer , information must be provided on aging with PWS. This study is a report of the initial data for a planned longitudinal study on aging with PWS. Determine associations between body composition , diet , PA , and a timed walk for adults with PWS , and to assess adequacy of dietary intake for those individuals aging with PWS. This cross-sectional investigation determined dietary habits , PA , and body composition of adults with PWS , and tested associations between these variables. Participants ranged in age from 18 to 62 years. They had healthier body composition , at 26.8 % body fat , than previously reported. Mean body mass index ( BMI) was in the overweight range at 26.7. Those who consumed higher amounts of fat ( as a percent of total kilocalories) had statistically significant lower body fat percentage , but this may simply reflect that individuals with lower body fat percentages felt freer to consume fat. Mean steps taken per day was 7631.7 steps but only 16 % of participants met healthy PA recommendations despite participating in daily structured exercise. All participants ' diets met Dietary Guidelines for macronutrient distribution , but 80 % were deficient in calcium , 100 % were deficient in dietary vitamin D , and 87 % were deficient in fiber. Sample size was small , so it was difficult to reach statistical significance , despite seeing clinical significance. Recommend working toward healthy PA recommendations for all age groups by decreasing time in sedentary activity. Recommend increasing vitamin A and D fortified dairy products and high-fiber foods , and consider dietary supplementation , especially for calcium , vitamin D , and fiber.