 Orthodontic treatment can result in root resorption ( RR). Traditional two-dimensional ( 2D) data exhibit magnification , deformation and positioning problems. Cone beam computed tomography ( CBCT) contains more accurate three-dimensional ( 3D) information. This study identified and qualified the extent and location of root resorption using cone beam computed tomography ( CBCT) after comprehensive orthodontic treatment. Studies comparing the RR before and after comprehensive orthodontic treatment using CBCT were identified using electronic searches of databases , including Cochrane , PubMed , EMBASE , China National Knowledge Infrastructure ( CNKI) and Web of Science , and manual searches in relevant journals and the reference lists of the included studies until Oct 25 , 2017. The extraction of data and the risk of bias evaluation were conducted by two investigators independently. The methodological quality of the included studies was assessed using the methodological index for non-randomized studies ( MINORS). Studies that reported the length and volume of teeth were used for quantitative analyses. Twelve studies were included in the meta-analysis. The length of all teeth after intervention was significantly shorter than that before treatment ( MD = 0.80 , 95 % CI 0.56 , 1.03 , P < 0.00001). The sequence of RR from heaviest to lightest was maxillary lateral incisors , maxillary central incisors , mandibular anterior teeth , and maxillary canines. Studies were divided into two subgroups based on the use of tooth extraction. Root shortening after treatment was observed in both groups , and extraction caused more root resorption than was observed in the non-extraction group. There were different degrees of root resorption after orthodontics , but it was clinically acceptable. Root resorption established in CBCT research was less serious and more accurate than that observed in the two-dimensional research. Current evidence suggests that root length and volume were reduced after orthodontic treatment. The order of the amount of RR was maxillary lateral incisors , maxillary central incisors and mandibular anterior teeth. Most of the articles were complicated by different confounding factors. Therefore , more high-quality clinical trials are needed to determine the risk factors of root resorption and optimal protocols for treatment and to draw more reliable conclusions.