 Cerebral palsy ( CP) is the most common childhood physical disability , with 80 % estimated to be in low-middle-income countries. This study aims to ( 1) determine the accuracy of General Movements ( GMs)/ Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination ( HINE) for detecting CP at 18 months corrected age ( CA); ( 2) determine the effectiveness of a community-based parent-delivered early intervention for infants at high risk of CP in West Bengal , India ( Learning through Everyday Activities with Parents for infants with CP; LEAP-CP). This study comprises two substudies: ( 1) a study of the predictive validity of the GMs and HINE for detecting CP; ( 2) randomised , double-blinded controlled trial of a novel intervention delivered through peer trainers ( Community Disability Workers , CDW) compared with health advice ( 15 fortnightly visits). 142 infants at high risk of CP ( ` absent fidgety ' GMs; ` high risk score ' on HINE) aged 12-40 weeks CA will be recruited to the intervention substudy , with infants randomised based on a computer-generated sequence. Researchers will be masked to group allocation , and caregivers and CDWs naïve to intervention status. Visits will include therapeutic modules ( goal-directed active motor/cognitive strategies and LEAP-CP games) and parent education. Health advice is based on the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness , WHO. Infants will be evaluated at baseline , post intervention and 18 months CA. The primary hypothesis is that infants receiving LEAP-CP will have greater scaled scores on the Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory-Computer Adaptive Test ( mobility domain) at 18 months compared with health advice. Secondary outcomes include infant functional motor , cognitive , visual and communication development; infant growth; maternal mental health. This study is approved through appropriate Australian and Indian ethics committees ( see in text) with families providing written informed consent. Findings from this trial will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journal publications and conference presentations. 12616000653460p; Pre-results.