 Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC) incidence is increasing rapidly. Esophageal cancer has the second lowest 5-year survival rate of people diagnosed with cancer in Canada. Given the poor survival and the potential for further increases in incidence , phase-specific cost estimates constitute an important input for economic evaluation of prevention , screening , and treatment interventions. The study aims to estimate phase-specific net direct medical costs of care attributable to EAC , costs stratified by cancer stage and treatment , and predictors of total net costs of care for EAC. A population-based retrospective cohort study was conducted using Ontario Cancer Registry-linked administrative health data from 2003 to 2011. The mean net costs of EAC care per 30 patient-days ( 2016 CAD) were estimated from the payer perspective using phase of care approach and generalized estimating equations. Predictors of net cost by phase of care were based on a generalized estimating equations model with a logarithmic link and gamma distribution adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical factors. The mean net costs of EAC care per 30 patient-days were $ 1016 ( 95 % CI , $ 955- $ 1078) in the initial phase , $ 669 ( 95 % CI , $ 594- $ 743) in the continuing care phase , and $ 8678 ( 95 % CI , $ 8217- $ 9139) in the terminal phase. Overall , stage IV at diagnosis and surgery plus radiotherapy for EAC incurred the highest cost , particularly in the terminal phase. Strong predictors of higher net costs were receipt of chemotherapy plus radiotherapy , surgery plus chemotherapy , radiotherapy alone , surgery alone , and chemotherapy alone in the initial and continuing care phases , stage III-IV disease and patients diagnosed with EAC later in a calendar year ( 2007-2011) in the initial and terminal phases , comorbidity in the continuing care phase , and older age at diagnosis ( 70-74 years) , and geographic region in the terminal phase. Costs of care vary by phase of care , stage at diagnosis , and type of treatment for EAC. These cost estimates provide information to guide future resource allocation decisions , and clinical and policy interventions to reduce the burden of EAC.