 Research estimates that 30 % of children under the age of 16 years in the UK live with at least one parent with an alcohol use disorder ( AUD). Parental AUDs are associated with adverse childhood experiences and poorer outcomes for children. The PAReNTS ( Promoting Alcohol Reduction in Non-Treatment Seeking parents) trial aims to examine the feasibility and acceptability of a randomised controlled trial of brief alcohol interventions to reduce parental alcohol misuse. The cluster randomised controlled trial will be conducted within early help family support and children 's social care services in three local authorities in the North East of England: Newcastle , Durham and North Tyneside. All eligible parents the caseloads of participating practitioners will be screened for an AUD using the Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test- Consumption ( AUDIT-C) screening tool by the social care practitioners within routine appointments. All parents who score 5 or more on the AUDIT-C will be invited to participate in the trial. Consenting participants will complete a baseline questionnaire before receiving one of three randomised interventions: ( i) healthy lifestyle leaflet ( control intervention); ( ii) a brief alcohol advice intervention delivered by the social care practitioner plus healthy lifestyle leaflet; ( iii) a brief alcohol advice intervention delivered by the social care practitioner , healthy lifestyle leaflet plus a 40-min behaviour change intervention with an optional review session delivered by the local alcohol service. Follow-up data will be collected 6 and 12 months post recruitment. A linked qualitative study will explore participating parent and practitioner views on the acceptability of trial processes and interventions. The PAReNTS trial will provide a robust estimate of recruitment , retention and consent rates in order to inform the design of a future definitive study examining the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of alcohol screening and brief interventions to reduce parental AUDs within vulnerable families. ISRCTN registry ISRCTN60291091; protocol version 2; 17.10.2016.