 There has been an absolute and relative increase in the number of patients with cannabis-related disorders as the principal diagnosis in many countries in recent years. Cannabis is now the most frequently mentioned problem drug reported by new patients in Europe , and cannabis patients constituted one third of all drug treatment patients in 2015. There is limited knowledge with regard to patient characteristics , the extent and types of health and psychosocial problems , as well as their association with long-term outcomes. We analysed indicators of physical , psychological and psychosocial problems of all patients admitted to treatment for cannabis use in Norway in 2009 and 2010 using register data and observed them to the end of 2013. Patient characteristics and outcomes were compared to a randomly drawn control group with corresponding age and gender distribution. Using logistic regression of prospective data , we studied associations between baseline characteristics and work and study status in 2013. Cannabis patients tended to be relatively young and the large majority were male. They had parents who were less highly educated compared to controls , while there was no difference in migration background. In addition to an increased risk of premature death , nearly half of the patients received a secondary psychological diagnosis and a similar proportion received an additional substance use diagnosis during the 4-5 years of study follow-up. The cannabis patients were less educated than the control group and also less likely to be studying or working at the end of the study period. Entering treatment at a young age , having completed more than secondary education , having a highly-educated mother and not having a secondary diagnosis were factors that were positively associated with being in education or employment at the end of follow-up. Data covering the entire Norwegian population of patients admitted primarily for cannabis-related problems showed comprehensive and complex patterns of physical , psychological and psychosocial problems. The prevalence and extent of these problems varied markedly from those of the general population. Work and study outcomes following treatment depended on the seriousness of the condition including co-morbidity as well as social capital.