 Although the high mortality rates have been extensively reported worldwide , few studies have investigated the epidemiology of CRKP-BSIs in the early stage after kidney transplantation ( KTx) from donation after cardiac death ( DCD). We sought to describe the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of cases of carbapenem resistant A retrospective analysis of clinical data of CRKP-BSIs in KTRs admitted to a Chinese hospital in Beijing , China , between January 1 , 2012 and December 31 , 2016 was performed. The annual percentage of patients with CRKP , the annual number of total KTRs and KTRs from DCD were determined. The genetic relatedness of the strains was determined by polymerase chain reaction and pulse field gel electrophoresis ( PFGE). During the study period , there were total 947 KTRs in our hospital , including 275 KTRs from DCD. Five incidences of CRKP-BSIs in KTRs were identified , and two of them ( Case 1,3) from the same foreign hospital. The incidence of CRKP-BSIs in the early stage ( within 3 months) following kidney transplantation ( KTx) from DCD was about 1.1 % ( 3/275). In Case 1-3 and 5 , the rupture of renal transplant artery was presented on the 40th , 16th , 43th and 74th day after KTx , and in Case 4 , the thrombus of renal transplant artery was presented on the 13th day after KTx. Three cases ( Case 1,2,5) occurring pneumothorax on the 45th , 51th and 32th day after KTx. Four cases ( Case 1-4) received the excision of the transplanted kidney for the treatment. Polymerase chain reaction showed the bands for case 2 were distinctive from other cases. Pulse field gel electrophoresis showed mainly three clusters of the bands for all the isolates. During the study period , we observed an increase in the occurrence of CRKP-BSIs among KTRs from DCD in our hospital. We demonstrated that rupture/thrombus of the renal transplant artery was associated with CRKP-BSI in the early stage after KTx from DCD. Albeit the low incidence of CRKP-BSI ( 1.1 %) after KTx from DCD , the high mortality ( 4/5) had been observed from the prognosis of the patients. Thorough surveillance of DCD donors , early identification of CRKP-BSI , necessary preventative measurements and use of appropriate treatments should be the strategy for CRKP-BSI in the early stage after KTx from DCD.