 Evidence suggests an unmet need for provision of psychological interventions in inpatient psychiatric settings. However , inpatient wards can present a challenging environment in which to implement interventions. The authors developed the Emotional Coping Skills workbook , a psychosocial intervention designed to overcome these challenges and provide inpatients with an opportunity for psychologically-informed therapeutic engagement. The workbook includes information and exercises to empower inpatients to understand their emotions and learn to cope with their distress. A qualitative study using thematic analysis was undertaken in two UK inpatient psychiatric hospitals to explore staff 's views about whether and how the workbook could be implemented , and on barriers to its use. Thirty-five nursing and occupational therapy staff members participated in four focus groups , and a further two psychologists in semi-structured interviews. Staff identified key barriers to successful implementation of the workbook. These were firstly , the difficulty in finding time and space for therapeutic work in the stressful ward environment. Secondly , staff identified a culture of emotional neglect whereby neither staff nor inpatients felt able to talk about emotions , and patients ' physical needs and medication were prioritised. Thirdly , staff discussed how psychotic symptoms and emotional distress could limit patients ' ability to engage with the workbook material. Staff suggested ways in which the feasibility of using the workbook could be enhanced. Firstly , they discussed the importance of encouraging staff to value psychological approaches and to view the workbook as a resource to help them manage their existing tasks. Secondly , they emphasised the value of staff drawing on their expertise to deliver the workbook flexibly in different formats and settings , depending on each patient 's particular presentation. Thirdly , they advocated empowering staff to decide the timing of intervention delivery in the context of each inpatient 's fluctuations in distress and progress towards recovery. The study has highlighted key principles for flexible and well-integrated intervention delivery; these principles will be helpful for enhancing the feasibility of any nurse-delivered psychological intervention in inpatient settings.