 Wild rodents are important hosts for tick larvae but co-infestations with other mites and insects are largely neglected. Small rodents were trapped at four study sites in Berlin , Germany , to quantify their ectoparasite diversity. Host-specific , spatial and temporal occurrence of ectoparasites was determined to assess their influence on direct and indirect zoonotic risk due to mice and voles in an urban agglomeration. Rodent-associated arthropods were diverse , including 63 species observed on six host species with an overall prevalence of 99 %. The tick Ixodes<pathogen> ricinus<pathogen> was the most prevalent species , found on 56 % of the rodents. The trapping location clearly affected the presence of different rodent species and , therefore , the occurrence of particular host-specific parasites. In Berlin , fewer temporary and periodic parasite species as well as non-parasitic species ( fleas , chiggers and nidicolous Gamasina) were detected than reported from rural areas. In addition , abundance of parasites with low host-specificity ( ticks , fleas and chiggers) apparently decreased with increasing landscape fragmentation associated with a gradient of urbanisation. In contrast , stationary ectoparasites , closely adapted to the rodent host , such as the fur mites Myobiidae and Listrophoridae , were most abundant at the two urban sites. A direct zoonotic risk of infection for people may only be posed by Nosopsyllus fasciatus fleas , which were prevalent even in the city centre. More importantly , peridomestic rodents clearly supported the life cycle of ticks in the city as hosts for their subadult stages. In addition to trapping location , season , host species , body condition and host sex , infestation with fleas , gamasid Laelapidae mites and prostigmatic Myobiidae mites were associated with significantly altered abundance of I.<pathogen> ricinus<pathogen> larvae on mice and voles. Whether this is caused by predation , grooming behaviour or interaction with the host immune system is unclear. The present study constitutes a basis to identify interactions and vector function of rodent-associated arthropods and their potential impact on zoonotic diseases.