 Cytoreductive surgery ( CRS) with hyperthermic intraperitoneal peroperative chemotherapy ( HIPEC) , indicated for patients with peritoneal metastases from digestive or gynecological malignancies alike , demonstrates a considerable impact on hemostatic metabolism , both on platelet and on coagulation level. The potential hemostatic interference in CRS and HIPEC is phase dependent. The hypothesis of this prospective cohort study is that the procedure exposed an increased thrombotic risk , resulting in a faster and increased thrombin generation and hyper platelet function. This study explores the combined use of ROTEM ( rotational thromboelastometry) , PACT ( platelet activation test) and CAT ( thrombin generation test) assays during CRS and HIPEC with a follow-up of 7 days postoperative in 27 patients with confirmed histological diagnosis of peritoneal disease. Platelet reactivity ( relative to before incision values) to CRP ( collagen-related peptide) ( p value 0.02) and TRAP ( thrombin receptor activator peptide) ( p value 0.048) seems to be slightly reduced during CRS and HIPEC with regard to αIIbβ3 activation , while P-selectin expression is not affected. During surgery , CAT demonstrates that , the LT ( lagtime) ( p value 0.0003) and TTP ( time-to-thrombin peak) values ( p value 0.002) decrease while and the TP ( thrombin peak) ( p value 0.004) and ETP ( endogenous thrombin potential) ( p value 0.02) increase. Subsequently , after surgery , the LT and TTP increase and ETP and TP decrease in time. ROTEM EXTEM ( extrinsic) MCF ( maximum clot firmness) ( p value 0.005) , INTEM ( intrinsic) MCF ( p value 0.003) and FIBTEM ( fibrinogen) MCF ( p value < 0.001) decreased during CRS. At day 7 INTEM and FIBTEM MCF values ( p values of 0.004 and < 0.001) were significantly higher than before surgery. No considerable changes in platelet count and hemoglobin concentration and absence of leukopenia<symptom> are noticed. This approach detects changes in coagulation much earlier than noticed by standard coagulation tests.