 The increasing focus of healthcare systems worldwide on long-term care highlights the need for culturally sensitive Health-Related Quality of Life instruments to accurately capture perceived health of various populations. Such instruments require a contextualized conceptual framework of health domains , which is lacking in some socio-cultural contexts. We developed a comprehensive and culturally sensitive conceptual framework of health domains relevant to the Singaporean population. We recruited Singaporeans/ permanent residents , English/ Chinese-speaking , with/ without chronic illnesses to participate in focus group discussions ( FGDs) and in-depth interviews ( IDIs). We elicited health areas participants perceived to be important for them to be happy and satisfied with life. To encourage spontaneous emergence of themes , we did not specify any aspect beyond the broad domains of Physical , Mental , and Social health so as not to limit the emergence of new themes. Themes from the transcripts were distilled through open coding ( two independent coders) , then classified into more abstract domains ( each transcript coded independently by two coders from a pool of six coders). From October 2013 to August 2014 , 121 members of the general public participated in 18 FGDs and 13 IDIs ( 44.6 % males , mean age: 53.3 years 77 % Chinese , 9 % Malay , 12 % Indian , 63 % with chronic illness) while 13 healthcare workers participated as patient-proxies in three FGDs. Thematic analysis identified 27 domains. The 15 physical domains included physical appearance , energy , physical fitness , and health and resistance to illness. The nine mental domains included emotions , self-esteem , and personal freedom. The three social domains were social contact , social relationships , and social roles. This conceptual framework reflected physical , mental , and social dimensions of well-being , suggesting that the Singapore population 's views on health support the World Health Organization 's definition of health as `` a state of complete physical , mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity ''.