  N-acylethanolamines play different roles in energy balance<symptom>; anandamide ( AEA) stimulates energy intake and storage , N-palmitoylethanolamide ( PEA) counters inflammation<symptom> , and N-oleoylethanolamide ( OEA) mediates anorectic signals and lipid oxidation. Inconsistencies in the association of plasma N-acylethanolamines with human obesity and cardiometabolic risk have emerged among previous studies , possibly caused by heterogeneous cohorts and designs , and by unstandardized N-acylethanolamine measurements. We aimed to characterize changes in the plasma profile , including N-acylethanolamine levels and ratios associated with obesity , menopause in women , and ageing in men , and to define the significance of such a profile as a biomarker for metabolic imbalance. Adult<disease> , drug-free women ( n = 103 premenopausal and n = 81 menopausal) and men ( n = 144) were stratified according to the body mass index ( BMI) into normal weight ( NW; BMI: 18.5-24.9 kg/m BMI and waist circumference directly associated with AEA in women and men , and with PEA in premenopausal women and in men , while BMI directly associated with OEA in premenopausal women and in men. BMI , in both genders , and waist circumference , in women only , inversely associated with PEA/AEA and OEA/AEA. Menopause increased N-acylethanolamine levels , whereas ageing resulted in increasing OEA relative abundance in men. AEA and OEA abundances in premenopausal , and PEA and OEA abundances in lean menopausal women , were directly associated with hypertension. Conversely , PEA and OEA abundances lowered with hypertension in elderly men. Insulin resistance was associated with changes in N-acylethanolamine ratios specific for premenopausal ( reduced PEA/AEA and OEA/AEA) , menopausal ( reduced OEA/AEA) women and men ( reduced OEA/AEA and OEA/PEA). PEA and OEA levels increased with total cholesterol , and OEA abundance specifically increased with HDL-cholesterol. Elevated triglyceride levels were associated with increased N-acylethanolamine levels only in menopausal women. Obesity-related N-acylethanolamine hypertone is characterized by imbalanced N-acylethanolamine ratios. The profile given by a combination of N-acylethanolamine absolute levels and ratios enables imbalances to be identified in relationship with different metabolic parameters , with specific relevance according to gender , menopause and age , representing a useful means for monitoring metabolic health. Finally , N-acylethanolamine system appears a promising target for intervention strategies.