  Even though evidence based medicine , guidelines and algorithms still represent the pillars of the management of chronic<disease> diseases<disease> ( i.e: hypertension , diabetes mellitus) , a patient centred approach has been recently proposed as a successful strategy , in particular to improve drug adherence. Aim of the present review is to evaluate the unmet needs in LUTS/BPH management and the possible impact of a patient centered approach in this setting. A National Center for Biotechnology Information ( NCBI) PubMed search for relevant articles published from January 2000 until December 2016 was performed by combining the following MESH terms: patients centred medicine , patient centered care , person centered care , patient centered outcomes , value based care , shared decision making , male , Lower<symptom> Urinary<disease> Tract Symptoms , Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia<disease> , treatment. We followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis ( PRISMA). All studies reporting on patient centred approach , shared decision making and evidence-based medicine were included in the review. All original article , reviews , letters , congress abstracts , and editorials comments were included in the review. Studies reporting single case reports , experimental studies on animal models and studies not in English were not included in the review. Overall 751 abstracts were reviewed , out of them 87 full texts were analysed resulting in 36 papers included. The evidence summarised in this systematic review confirmed how a patient centred visit may improve patient 's adherence to medication. Although a patient centred model has been rarely used in urology , management of Low Urinary Tract Symptoms ( LUTS) and Benign Prostatic Obstruction ( BPO) may represent the perfect ground to experiment and improve this approach. Notwithstanding all the innovations in LUTS/BPO medical treatment , the real life picture is far from ideal. Recent evidence shows a dramatical low drug adherence and satisfaction to medical treatment in LUTS/BPH patients. A patient centred approach may improve drug adherence and some unmet needs in this area , potentially reducing complications and costs. However further well designed studies are needed to confirm this data.