  Although urinary<disease> tract<disease> infection<disease> ( UTI) resolves with prompt treatment in a majority of children , some children , especially those aged less than 5 years , also develop renal parenchymal scarring ( RPS). RPS causes high blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> that may lead to severe chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease ( ESRD). Although the risk of UTI is higher in white children than in black children , it is unknown whether RPS is more common in white children than in black children as data are scarce in this regard. A common genetic predisposition to kidney disease in African Americans and the sub-Saharan African blacks is the possession of apolipoprotein L1 ( APOL1). APOL1 risk variants regulate the production of APOL1. APOL1 circulates in the blood , and it is also found in the kidney tissue. While circulating , APOL1 kills the trypanosome parasites; an increased APOL1 in kidney tissues , under the right environmental conditions , can also result in the death of kidney tissue ( vascular endothelium , the podocytes , proximal tubules , and arterial cells) , which , ultimately , is replaced by fibrous tissue. APOL1 may influence the development of RPS , as evidence affirms that its expression is increased in kidney tissue following UTI caused by bacteria. Thus , UTI may be a putative environmental risk factor responsible for APOL1-induced kidney injury. The aim of this proposal was to outline a study that seeks to determine if the possession of two copies of either G1 or G2 APOL1 variant increases the risk of having RPS , 6 months following a febrile UTI among Nigerian under-five children. This case-control association study seeks to determine whether the risk of RPS from febrile UTI is conditional on having 2 APOL1 risk alleles ( either G1 or G2). Cases will be children with a confirmed RPS following a febrile UTI. Controls will be age- , gender- , and ethnic-matched children with a febrile UTI but without RPS. Children with vesicoureteral reflux and other congenital anomalies of the urinary tract are to be excluded. Association between predictor variables ( ethnicity , APOL1 G1 or G2 , and others) and RPS will be tested at bivariate logistic regression analyses. Predictors that attained significance at a P value of ˂ .05 will be considered for multiple logistic regressions. Likelihood-based tests will be used for hypothesis testing. Estimation will be done for the effect size for each of the APOL1 haplotypes using a generalized linear model. The study is expected to last for 3 years. The study is contingent on having a platform for undergoing a research-based PhD program in any willing university in Europe or elsewhere. The findings of this study will be used to improve the care of African children who may develop RPS following febrile UTI. RR1-10.2196/ 9514.