  Patients with movement disorders have a high prevalence of sleep disturbances that can be classified as ( 1) nocturnal sleep symptoms , such as insomnia , nocturia , restless legs syndrome<disease> ( RLS) , periodic limb<symptom> movements<symptom> ( PLM) , obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA) , and REM sleep behavior disorder; and ( 2) diurnal problems that include excessive daytime sleepiness ( EDS) and sleep attacks. The objective of this review is to provide a practical overview of the most relevant scales that assess these disturbances to guide the choice of the most useful instrument/s depending on the line of research or clinical focus. For each scale , the reader will find a brief description of practicalities and psychometric properties , use in movement disorder cohorts and analyzed strengths and limitations. To assess insomnia , the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index , a generic scale , and three disease-specific scales: the Parkinson Disease Sleep Scale ( PDSS) , the PDSS-2 , and Scales for outcomes in Parkinson 's disease ( PD)- Sleep-Nocturnal Sleep subscale are discussed. To evaluate nocturia , there are no specific tools , but some extensively validated generic urinary<symptom> symptom<symptom> scales ( the Overall Bladder Questionnaire and the Overactive Bladder Symptom Score) and some PD-specific scales that include a nocturia item are available. To measure RLS severity , there are currently four domain-specific generic scales: The International Restless Legs Scale , the Johns Hopkins Restless Legs Severity Scale , the Restless Legs Syndrome-6 measure , a Pediatric RLS Severity Scale , and the Augmentation Severity Rating Scale ( a scale to evaluate augmentation under treatment) and several instruments that assess impact on quality of sleep and health-related quality of life. To evaluate the presence of PLM , no clinical scales have been developed to date. As far as OSA , commonly used instruments such as the Sleep Apnea Scale of the Sleep Disorders Questionnaire , the STOP-Bang questionnaire , and the Berlin Questionnaire are reviewed. Three scales have been extensively used to assess EDS: the generic Epworth Sleepiness Scale , the Stanford Sleepiness Scale , and the PD-specific Scales for outcomes in PD-Sleep-Daytime sleepiness subscale. To date , only the Inappropriate Sleep Composite Score specifically evaluates propensity to sleep attacks.