  Lymphatic malformations are histologically benign vascular structures that vary in anatomic lesion<symptom> and size. Extensive head and neck lymphatic malformations may be life-threatening. In the present study , we described three difficult-to-treat infants with giant cervico-mediastinal lymphatic malformations accompanied by severe respiratory distress. Case 1. A Korean girl born at a gestational age of 37 weeks and weighing 2920 g had a large cervical mass compressing the trachea. Despite initial OK-432 sclerotherapy , the mass extended over the contralateral retropharyngeal space and mediastinum. Although the cervical mass was completely excised , our patient was not weaned off the ventilator. The mediastinal lymphatic malformation was excised , and our patient underwent continued intensive respiratory care with nasal continuous positive airway pressure for 6 months. She is now 5 years old and doing well without any sequelae. Case 2. A 5-month-old Korean boy showed respiratory difficulty with feeding intolerance after partial excision of a neck lymphatic malformation. We found that the remnant cervical mass had grown into the retropharyngeal space and mediastinum. After a second operation for the cervico-mediastinal mass , he experienced severe respiratory difficulty requiring ventilator care for 6 months. However , he died from central-line fungal sepsis<disease>. Case 3. A 30-day-old Korean girl was referred for remnant lymphatic malformation after partial excision. The cervical mass extended to the mediastinum and occupied half of the thoracic cavity , encasing all of the major vessels. After surgical excision , she underwent ventilator care and pleurodesis three times with doxycycline for recurrent pleural effusion<symptom>. At the age of 26 months , she was weaned off supplementary oxygen and she showed normal development without any sequelae. Despite difficulties in the treatment process , combinations of delicate surgical treatment , appropriate adjuvant sclerotherapy , and intensive respiratory supportive care could result in a good outcome. However , complications due to long-term intensive care could still be considered.