  Kidney damage is a well-recognized complication of the antiphospholipid syndrome<disease> ( APS) , either primary or systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE)- associated APS. Kidney involvement in APS involves a variety of manifestations , such as renal artery thrombosis or stenosis , renal vein thrombosis , allograft loss due to thrombosis after kidney transplantation , and injury to the renal microvasculature , also known as APS nephropathy. Biopsy in patients with APS nephropathy includes acute thrombotic microangiopathy lesions<symptom> and chronic intrarenal vascular lesions<symptom> such as interlobular fibrous intimal hyperplasia<disease> , arterial and arteriolar recanalizing thrombosis , fibrous arterial occlusion , and focal cortical atrophy. The most frequent clinical features are hypertension , microscopic hematuria<symptom> , proteinuria<symptom> ( ranging from mild to nephritic levels) , and renal insufficiency. It is uncertain whether antiphospholipid antibodies or other factors are implicated in the development of APS nephropathy , and whether it is driven mainly by thrombotic or by inflammatory processes. Experimental models and clinical studies of thrombotic microangiopathy lesions<symptom> implicate activation of the complement cascade , tissue factor , and the mTORC pathway. Currently , the management of APS nephropathy relies on expert opinion , and consensus is lacking. There is limited evidence about the effect of anticoagulants , and their use remains controversial. Treatment approaches in patients with APS nephropathy lesions<symptom> may include the use of heparin based on its role on complement activation pathway inhibition or the use of intravenous immunoglobulin and/or plasma exchange. Targeted therapies may also be considered based on potential APS nephropathy pathogenetic mechanisms such as B-cell directed therapies , complement inhibition , tissue factor inhibition , mTOR pathway inhibition , or anti-interferon antibodies , but prospective multicenter studies are needed to address their role.