  The aim of this retrospective study is to describe ocular findings in a large Noonan syndrome<disease> cohort and to detect associations between ocular features and genetic mutations that were not found in earlier studies. We collected ophthalmological and genetic data of 105 patients ( median age , 12 years; range , 0-60 years) clinically diagnosed as Noonan syndrome<disease>. The ocular findings were linked to the genotypes. All patients with Noonan syndrome<disease> showed multiple abnormalities in the categories of vision and refraction , external ocular features , ocular alignment and motility , anterior ocular segment , and posterior ocular segment. In total , 50 patients have NS due to a mutation in PTPN11. Permanent visual impairment ( bilateral best-corrected visual acuity < 0.3) was found in 7 patients , including patients with a mutation in RAF1 , SHOC2 , and KRAS. Keratoconus was found in 2 PTPN11 positive patients , and prominent corneal nerves were observed in a patient with a SOS1 mutation. This study shows an overview of ocular abnormalities in Noonan syndrome<disease> , including permanent visual impairment caused by binocular optic nerve abnormalities and nystagmus<symptom>. Delay in ophthalmological diagnosis is still present , also in patients with visual impairment. All Noonan syndrome<disease> patients should have a complete ophthalmological examination at the time of diagnosis. What is Known: • Although we discover more pathogenic mutations in patients with Noonan syndrome<disease> , Noonan syndrome<disease> still is a clinical diagnosis • Ocular features of Noonan syndrome<disease> are characterized by developmental anomalies of the eyelids and associated with other ocular abnormalities in childhood ( including refractive errors , strabismus and amblyopia). What is New: • There seems to be a delay in the ophthalmological diagnosis and awareness of the broad variety ofophthalmological features including refractive errors and visual impairment in Noonan syndrome<disease> is needed. All children should have a full ophthalmological examination at the time of diagnosis. • Permanent visual impairment ( best-corrected visual acuity < 0.3) is found in patients with mutations in RAF1 , SHOC2 , and KRAS and the cause is probably a developmental disorder of the optic nerves.