  Our study focuses on the fabrication of appropriate scaffolds for skin wound<disease> healing. This research brings valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of adhesion , proliferation , and control of cell behavior through the extracellular matrix represented by synthetic biodegradable nanofibrous membranes<symptom> coated by biomolecules. Nanofibrous polylactic acid ( PLA) membranes<symptom> were prepared by a needle-less electrospinning technology. These membranes<symptom> were coated with fibrin according to two preparation protocols , and additionally they were coated with fibronectin in order to increase the cell affinity for colonizing the PLA membranes<symptom>. The adhesion , growth , and extracellular matrix protein production of neonatal human dermal fibroblasts were evaluated on the nanofibrous membranes<symptom>. Our results showed that fibrin-coated membranes<symptom> improved the adhesion and proliferation of human dermal fibroblasts. The morphology of the fibrin nanocoating seems to be crucial for the adhesion of fibroblasts , and consequently for their phenotypic maturation. Fibrin either covered the individual fibers in the membrane ( F1 nanocoating) , or covered the individual fibers and also formed a fine homogeneous nanofibrous mesh on the surface of the membrane ( F2 nanocoating) , depending on the mode of fibrin preparation. The fibroblasts on the membranes<symptom> with the F1 nanocoating remained in their typical spindle-like shape. However , the cells on the F2 nanocoating were spread mostly in a polygon-like shape , and their proliferation was significantly higher. Fibronectin formed an additional mesh attached to the surface of the fibrin mesh , and further enhanced the cell adhesion and growth. The relative gene expression and protein production of collagen I and fibronectin were higher on the F2 nanocoating than on the F1 nanocoating. A PLA membrane coated with a homogeneous fibrin mesh seems to be promising for the construction of temporary full-thickness skin tissue substitutes.