  Curative effect of unilateral digital arterial ligation combined with low molecular weight heparins in the treatment of severed finger without venous anastomosis and its influence on venous crisis was studied. A total of 80 patients with distal severed finger treated in Wuxi No. 9 People 's Hospital from May 2014 to July 2016 were selected into the study. According to the random number table , they were divided into the control group ( n = 40) and the research group ( n = 40). The patients in control group were treated with unilateral digital arterial ligation , while the patients in research group were treated with unilateral digital arterial ligation combined with low molecular weight heparin. The wound<disease> healing time after operation , hospitalization time , hemorheology detection results , survival rate and necrosis<symptom> rate of replanted finger , incidence rate of venous crisis and recovery effect of replanted finger were compared between the two groups. After operation , the wound<disease> healing time and hospitalization time of patients in research group were lower than those in control group , and the differences were statistically significant ( p < 0.05). At 72 h after operation , the platelet adhesion rate , whole blood viscosity , whole blood low-shear viscosity , hematocrit and fibrinogen level in patients in research group were lower than those in control group , and the differences were statistically significant ( p < 0.05). At 7th day after operation , the survival rate of replanted finger in the research group was higher than that in control group , but the necrosis<symptom> rate of replanted finger and incidence rate of venous crisis were lower than those in control group , and the differences were statistically significant ( p < 0.05). At 6 months after operation , the nail length , sensation , two-point discrimination and mobility of distal interphalangeal joint of patients in the research group were superior to those in control group , and the differences were statistically significant ( p < 0.05). Unilateral digital arterial ligation combined with low molecular weight heparin has a significant effect in the treatment of severed finger without venous anastomosis , which can effectively reduce or prevent the occurrence of venous crisis , improve the survival rate of replanted finger and promote the function recovery of replanted finger , so it is worthy of clinical promotion.