  Interstitial lung diseases ( ILDs) are a diverse group of ∼ 200 acute and chronic pulmonary disorders that are characterized by variable amounts of inflammation<symptom> , fibrosis<disease> and architectural distortion with substantial morbidity and mortality. Inaccurate and delayed diagnoses increase the risk , especially in developing countries. Studies have indicated the significant roles of genetic elements in ILDs pathogenesis. Therefore , the first genetic knowledge resource , ILDgenDB , has been developed with an objective to provide ILDs genetic data and their integrated analyses for the better understanding of disease pathogenesis and identification of diagnostics-based biomarkers. This resource contains literature-curated disease candidate genes ( DCGs) enriched with various regulatory elements that have been generated using an integrated bioinformatics workflow of databases searches , literature-mining and DCGs-microRNA ( miRNAs)- single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs) association analyses. To provide statistical significance to disease-gene association , ILD-specificity index and hypergeomatric test scores were also incorporated. Association analyses of miRNAs , SNPs and pathways responsible for the pathogenesis of different sub-classes of ILDs were also incorporated. Manually verified 299 DCGs and their significant associations with 1932 SNPs , 2966 miRNAs and 9170 miR-polymorphisms were also provided. Furthermore , 216 literature-mined and proposed biomarkers were identified. The ILDgenDB resource provides user-friendly browsing and extensive query-based information retrieval systems. Additionally , this resource also facilitates graphical view of predicted DCGs-SNPs/miRNAs and literature associated DCGs-ILDs interactions for each ILD to facilitate efficient data interpretation. Outcomes of analyses suggested the significant involvement of immune system and defense mechanisms in ILDs pathogenesis. This resource may potentially facilitate genetic-based disease monitoring and diagnosis.Database URL: http://14.139.240.55/ildgendb/index.php.