  For years the pathogenesis of periodontitis<disease> was under an immunological Th1/Th2 paradigm. Th1 cells are considered to afford protection against the intracellular pathogens. These cells produce the interferons ( IFN) that are involved in macrophage activation , which , in turn , plays an important role in phagocytosis , complement fixation , and opsonization. Th2 cells are thought to have evolved as a form of protection against parasitic helminthes. Th17 subset of CD4Not Necessary + T cells was identified in the year 2005 , which added greater complexity to Th function and are pro inflammatory in nature. Interleukins ( ILs) have the ability to alter immunological changes and they also possess the ability to regulate lymphocyte<symptom> differentiation and haemopoietic stem cells , cell proliferation , and motility , which are classified as pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory. There are numerous studies that reported IL-17 levels associated with chronic periodontitis<disease> ( CP) development. Type II diabetes mellitus ( DM) is considered a risk factor for the development of periodontal<disease> diseases<disease> because the incidence , progression , and severity of periodontal<disease> diseases<disease> are more common with Type II DM than without DM. This study was aimed at evaluating whether non-surgical periodontal therapy had any effect on plasma concentrations of Interleukin-17 in systemically healthy chronic periodontitis<disease> patients and in chronic periodontitis<disease> patients with well controlled Type II Diabetes mellitus. Patients were divided into the two groups including the chronic periodontitis<disease> group ( 20 subjects) and the chronic periodontitis<disease> with well-controlled Type II Diabetes mellitus group ( 20 subjects). The Gingival Index and Plaque Index as well as the clinical Attachment Level ( CAL) were taken from all the patients of two groups after evaluating fasting blood sugar , post prandial blood sugar , and the Glycated Hemoglobin Level ( HbA1c). Then 5 mL blood samples were collected from each patient and plasma was separated and the IL-17 level is evaluated using the ELISA method. Then , as part of phase I periodontal therapy , scaling and root planning was performed. Patients were recalled after one month and clinical and biochemical parameters were reevaluated. Non-surgical periodontal therapy resulted in a reduction of plasma levels of IL-17 in chronic periodontitis<disease> patients with and without well controlled Type II Diabetes mellitus.