  Immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive properties of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM-MSCs) facilitate the treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome<disease> and acute lung injury ( ALI). Dysregulated miRNA ( miRNA or miR) expression associated with the effects of BM-MSCs was assessed in a rat model of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS)- induced ALI. The present study performed biochemical tests to assess five analytes , including alanine aminotransferase ( ALT) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST) , lactate , blood urea nitrogen ( BUN) , and creatinine ( CREA). Total cell count was assessed and the percentage of bronchoalveolar lavage neutrophil content was also examined. The results Histopathological examination of rat upper lobe lung tissue was then used to estimate lung injury score ( LIS). The levels of AST , lactate , BUN and creatinine ( excluding ALT) , released into the circulation upon injury , were significantly lower in ALI rats treated with BM-MSCs than in ALI rats alone ( P < 0.05). BM-MSC rats exhibited a significantly decreased bronchoalveolar lavage neutrophil percentage and LIS compared with that of LPS treated rats alone ( P < 0.05). In addition , the miRNA expression profile was determined following treatment with BM-MSCs via microarray analysis. A total of 95/690 miRNAs were differentially expressed following the treatment of BM-MSCs in rats with ALI. Among the 95 miRNAs , 66 were upregulated and 29 were downregulated; 9 miRNAs were significantly upregulated ( miR-1843-3p , miR-323-3p , miR-183-5p , miR-182 and miR-196b-3p) or downregulated ( miR-547-3p , miR-301b-5p , miR-503-3p and miR-142-3p). A total of 3 miRNAs were inversely expressed in ALI treated with BM-MSCs compared with untreated ALI. Of these 3 miRNAs , the expression of miR-142-3p and miR-503-3p was upregulated in the LPS groups and downregulated in the BM-MSC groups. miR-196b-3p was downregulated in the LPS group and upregulated in the BM-MSC groups. miRNAs have a role in cell proliferation , immune response , inflammation<symptom> and apoptosis , which may be associated with the therapeutic effects of BM-MSCs in ALI. In summary , BM-MSCs improved multi-organ damage and attenuated lung injury. Different miRNA profiles were expressed following BM-MSC treatment of ALI. These dysregulated miRNAs participated in BM-MSC-mediated immunomodulation of ALI.