  Rheumatoid arthritis<disease> ( RA) is associated with an approximately two-fold elevated risk of cardiovascular ( CV)- related mortality. Patients with RA present with systemic inflammation<symptom> including raised circulating myeloid cells , but fail to display traditional CV risk-factors , particularly dyslipidaemia. We aimed to explore if increased circulating myeloid cells is associated with impaired atherosclerotic lesion<symptom> regression or altered progression in RA. Using flow cytometry , we noted prominent monocytosis , neutrophilia , and thrombocytosis in two mouse models of RA. This was due to enhanced proliferation of the haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( HSPCs) in the bone<disease> marrow and the spleen. HSPCs expansion was associated with an increase in the cholesterol content , due to a down-regulation of cholesterol efflux genes , Apoe , Abca1 , and Abcg1. The HSPCs also had enhanced expression of key myeloid promoting growth factor receptors. Systemic inflammation<symptom> was found to cause defective cellular cholesterol metabolism. Increased myeloid cells in mice with RA were associated with a significant impairment in lesion<symptom> regression , even though cholesterol levels were equivalent to non-arthritic mice. Lesions<symptom> from arthritic mice exhibited a less stable phenotype as demonstrated by increased immune cell infiltration , lipid accumulation , and decreased collagen formation. In a progression model , we noted monocytosis , enhanced monocytes recruitment to lesions<symptom> , and increased plaque macrophages. This was reversed with administration of reconstituted high-density lipoprotein ( rHDL). Furthermore , RA patients have expanded CD16 + monocyte subsets and a down-regulation of ABCA1 and ABCG1. Rheumatoid arthritis<disease> impairs atherosclerotic regression and alters progression , which is associated with an expansion of myeloid cells and disturbed cellular cholesterol handling , independent of plasma cholesterol levels. Infusion of rHDL prevented enhanced myelopoiesis and monocyte entry into lesions<symptom>. Targeting cellular cholesterol defects in people with RA , even if plasma cholesterol is within the normal range , may limit vascular disease.