  Infratentorial siderosis ( iSS) is a progressive degenerative disorder targeting primarily the cerebellum and cranial nerve eighth; therefore , progressive<symptom> ataxia<symptom> and its neuro-otological findings are common. Toxicity from hemosiderin involves selectively vulnerable neurons and glia in these posterior fossa structures. Other neurologic findings may be present , though our focus relates to the cochlea-vestibular cerebellar involvement. Radiographic evidence of siderosis may be the result of recurrent , albeit covert bleeding in the subarachnoid space , or the consequence of an overt post-traumatic or aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage<symptom> ( SAH). The radiographic iSS appearance is identical regardless of the SAH cause. A recent study provides compelling evidence to search and correct possible hemorrhage<symptom> sources in the spinal canal. The removal of residual existing hemosiderin deposits that may potentially cause clinical symptoms remains as a major therapeutic challenge. We reviewed large data sources and identified salient papers that describe the pathogenesis , clinical and neurotologic manifestations , and the radiographic features of iSS. The epidemiology of iSS is unknown. In a recent series , clinically evident iSS was associated with recurrent SAH; by contrast , in a follow-up period ranging from weeks up to 11 years after a monophasic episode of SAH , radiographic siderosis was clinically silent. However , the post-aneurysmal or post-trauma SAH sample size in this single study was small and their observation period relatively short; moreover , the burden of intraneuronal hemosiderin is likely greater with recurrent SAH. There are a few reports of late iSS , several decades after traumatic SAH. A recent report found subjective hearing loss in aneurysmal SAH individuals with radiographic siderosis. Only in recent years , it is safe to perform magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) in post-aneurysmal SAH , because of the introduction of titanium , MRI-compatible aneurysm<disease> clips. iSS can be associated with significant neurotologic and cerebellar morbidity; the recurrent SAH variant is frequently clinically symptomatic , has a shorter latency and greater neurotologic disability. In these cases , a thorough search and management of a covert source of bleeding may stop clinical progression. The frequency and clinical course of radiographic iSS after traumatic and post-aneurysmal SAH is largely unknown. Detection of radiographic iSS after trauma or aneurysm<disease> bleeding suggests that the slower clinical course could benefit from an effective intervention if it became available. The use of cochlear implants is a valid alternative with advanced hearing impairment.