  China has set up a universal coverage social health insurance system since the 2009 healthcare reform. Due to the inadequate funds , the social health insurance system reimbursed the inpatient expenditures with much higher ratio than outpatient expenditure. The gap in reimbursement ratios resulted in a rapid rising hospitalization rate but poor health outcomes among the Chinese population. A redistribution of social health insurance funds has become one of the main challenges for the performance of Social Health Insurance. Two comparable counties , Dangyang County and Zhijiang County , in Hubei Province of China , were sampled as the intervention group and the control group , respectively. The Social Health Insurance Management Department of the intervention group budgeted 600 yuan per capita per year to the patients with 3rd stage hypertension to cover their outpatient expenditures. The outpatient spending in the control group were paid out-of-pocket. The inpatient expenditures reimbursement policies in both groups were not changed. Besides , the Social Health Insurance Management Department of the intervention group budgeted 100 yuan per patient per year to township physicians and hospitals to provide health management services for the patients. While , the health management services in the control group were still provided by health workers. A Propensity Score Matching model and Difference-in-differences model were used to estimate the net effects of the intervention in dimensions of medical services utilization , medical expenditures , SHI reimbursement , and health outcomes. One thousand , six hundred and seventy three pairs of patients were taken as valid subjects to conduct Difference-in-differences estimation after the Propensity Score Matching. The net intervention effect is to increase outpatient frequency by 3.3 ( 81.0 %) times ( P < 0.05) , to decrease hospitalization frequency by 0.075 (- 60.0 %) times ( P < 0.05) , and to increase the per capita total medical service utilization frequency by 3.225 ( 76.8 %) times ( P < 0.05). The per capita total medical expenditure decreased 394.2 (- 27.7 %) yuan. The SHI reimbursed 90.3 yuan more per capita for the outpatient spending , but the per capita inpatient expenditure reimbursement and per capita total medical expenditure reimbursement decreased significantly by 282.6 (- 44.0 %) yuan and 192.3 (- 28.5 %) yuan , respectively ( P < 0.05). The intervention reduced the per capita inpatient out-of-pocket expenditure and the per capita total out-of-pocket expenditure by 192.8 (- 36.7 %) yuan and 201.9 (- 29.9 %) yuan , respectively ( P < 0.05). The intervention significantly decreased the diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> of the intervention group by 2.9 mmHg ( P < 0.05) but had no significant impact on the systolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> (- 7.9 mmHg , P > 0.05). For China and countries attempting to establish a universal coverage SHI with inadequate funds , inpatient services were expensive but might not produce good health outcomes. Outpatient care for patients with chronic<disease> diseases<disease> should be fundamental , and outpatient expenditures should be reimbursed with a higher ratio.