  Local excision ( LE) is currently one of the most effective methods used in cases of large benign polyps , not suitable for endoscopic treatment , or early-stage neoplasms. LE is also alternative to anterior rectal resection in selected patients suffering from major comorbidities and limits for major abdominal procedure. Furthermore , LE results in less pain , reduced impact on bowel function , shorter duration of hospital stay , and lower rates of morbidity , mortality and stoma creation. In particular , early data on transanal minimally invasive surgery ( TAMIS) are promising , but they come from single centre case series related to small groups of patients and more data are needed to draw a final conclusion on the safety of this novel approach for transanal resection. A 62-year-old woman , following a positive faecal occult blood test and with unremarkable medical history , was admitted to hospital for excision of a large flat neoplastic lesion<symptom>. Endoscopic biopsy demonstrated a tubular adenoma with high-grade dysplasia and was decided to proceed with surgical excision by TAMIS. After surgery , short-term outcomes revealed prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time , undetectable factor XII activity , fever<disease> , and partial dehiscence of rectal wall defect suture. Cross-mixing studies of patient plasma show no correction in either the immediate or incubated activated partial thromboplastin time , indicating the presence of an acquired factor XII inhibitor. Activated partial thromboplastin time and factor XII improved in the following weeks without any specific therapy in addition to antibiotic therapy. This is the first report in which acquired inhibitor of coagulation factor XII is associated with a specific surgical procedure. This case has shown how trans-anal excision of rectal lesions<symptom> , even when performed by minimally invasive means such as in case of TAMIS , is not free of complications. We consider the acute<disease> infection<disease> , resulting from early dehiscence of the suture , the trigger in an abnormal immune response , and inhibitor development.