  Changes of interleukin ( IL) -1 β , IL-6 , IL-17 and tumor necrosis<symptom> factor-α ( TNF-α) in gingival crevicular fluid in patients with fixed orthodontic gingivitis<disease> after treatment with Kangfuxin solution were analyzed to explore the clinical effect of Kangfuxin solution in patients with orthodontic gingivitis<disease> A total of 78 patients diagnosed with fixed orthodontic gingivitis<disease> in Weifang People 's Hospital from January 2015 to March 2017 were selected. Thirty-nine patients were treated with gingival cleansing as control group , and the other 39 patients were treated with gingival cleansing plus spraying and sublingual administration with Kangfuxin solution as treatment group. The general data of patients were collected , and the changes of IL-1β , IL-6 , IL-17 and TNF-α in gingival crevicular fluid were measured , the bleeding index ( BI) , probing depth ( PD) , swelling and pain grades were recorded , and the clinical curative effects were compared between the two groups. The curative effect in treatment group was better than that in control group ( p < 0.05). After treatment , gingival BI and PD in both groups were lower than those before treatment. The curative effect in treatment group was better than that in control group ( p < 0.05). The levels of gingival pain and swelling after treatment in treatment group were mainly in grade I. The levels of gingival pain and swelling after treatment in control group were mainly in grade II and III ( p < 0.05). After treatment , the effective rate of control group was 76.92 % and that of treatment group was 97.44 % ( p < 0.05). It was found that the levels of IL-6 and TNF-α in gingival crevicular fluid were positively correlated with PD. The use of Kangfuxin solution in the treatment of patients with orthodontic gingivitis<disease> can effectively reduce the levels of IL-1β , IL-6 , IL-17 and TNF-α in gingival crevicular fluid , and improve the periodontal conditions and the effective rate of treatment.