  The adaptor protein Linker for activation of T cell ( LAT) is a key signaling hub used by the T cell antigen receptor. Mutant mice expressing loss-of-function mutations affecting LAT and including a mutation in which tyrosine 136 is replaced by a phenylalanine ( LatY136F) develop lymphoproliferative disorder involving T helper type 2 effector cells capable of triggering a massive polyclonal B cell activation that leads to hypergammaglobulinemia G1 and E and to non-resolving inflammation<symptom> and autoimmunity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the phenotypes of LatY136F knock-in mice resemble the immunohistopathological features of immunoglobulin G4-related disease ( IgG4-RD). LatY136F knock-in mice were sacrificed at 4-20 weeks of age , and pancreas , kidney , salivary gland and lung were obtained. All organs were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and with Azan for estimation of collagen in fibrosis<disease> , and the severity scores of inflammation<symptom> and fibrosis<disease> were evaluated. Immunostainings were performed to analyze the types of infiltrating cells. In addition , the effects of corticosteroid treatment on the development of tissue lesions<symptom> and serum levels of IgG1 were assessed. Tissue lesions<symptom> characterized by inflammatory mononuclear cell infiltration and fibrosis<disease> were detected in pancreas , kidney , and salivary gland starting from 6 weeks of age. Immunostainings showed pronounced infiltration of plasma cells , CD4-positive T cells , and macrophages. Infiltrating plasma cells predominantly expressed IgG1. The extent of inflammation<symptom> in pancreas and salivary glands was markedly reduced by corticosteroid treatment. LatY136F knock-in mice displayed increased production of Th2-type IgG1 ( a homologue of human IgG4) and developed multiple organ tissue lesions<symptom> reminiscent of those seen in patients with IgG4-RD. Moreover , the development of these tissue lesions<symptom> was highly sensitive to corticosteroid treatment like in IgG4-RD. For these reasons we consider the LatY136F knock-in mouse strain to represent a promising model for human IgG4-RD.