  Osteoarthritis ( OA) is a widespread arthritic disease and a primary cause of disability. Increasing evidence suggests that inflammation<symptom> has a pivotal part in its pathogenesis. Interleukin-1β ( IL-1β) is a primary mediator of local inflammatory processes in OA. Current therapies for OA mainly focus on the symptoms of the advanced stage of the disease. The possible utilization of bone<disease> marrow mesenchymal stem cells ( BMSCs) to regenerate cartilage is an appealing method , but in the case of OA requires chondrogenesis to take place within an inflamed environment. Our previous study showed that melatonin ( MLT) can promote chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs , but whether MLT can rescue IL-1β-impaired chondrogenesis in human BMSCs has not yet been established. MLT , which can have anti-inflammatory and prochondrogenic effects , has demonstrated potential in defeating IL-1β-induced inhibition of chondrogenesis and further study should be conducted. Human bone marrow-derived MSCs were separated and cultured based on our system that was already documented. A high-density micromass culture system was used for the chondrogenic differentiation of human BMSCs , which was also described previously. Human BMSCs were induced for chondrogenesis for 7 , 14 , and 21 days with the treatment of IL-1β and MLT. The cultured cartilage pellets were then evaluated by morphology , extracellular matrix accumulation , and chondrogenic , metabolic , and apoptotic marker expression. Furthermore , cell apoptosis was assessed by TUNEL assay. The phosphorylation level P65 and IκBα of the NF-κB pathway activity was explored on day 21 of chondrogenic differentiation of BMSCs. The current evaluation showed that MLT can save IL-1β-impaired chondrogenesis of human BMSCs in different aspects. Firstly , MLT can restore the chondrogenic pellet size , and rescue matrix synthesis and accumulation. Secondly , MLT can upregulate chondrogenic marker COL2A1 expression at both mRNA and protein levels , and also regulate the expression levels of other chondrogenic markers like ACAN , SOX9 , and COL10A1 in the presence of IL-1β. Thirdly , MLT can maintain the metabolic balance<symptom> of the chondrogenic process by suppressing expression of catabolic genes , such as MMP , MMP13 , and ADAMTS4. Furthermore , MLT can subdue IL-1β-induced cell apoptosis of BMSCs throughout chondrogenesis. Meanwhile , MLT suppressed the phosphorylation level of P65 and IκBα , which were elevated by IL-1β treatment , indicating that MLT can attenuate the IL-1β-induced activation of NF-κB signaling. The current evaluation showed that MLT can save IL-1β-impaired chondrogenesis of human BMSCs by restoring the pellet size and matrix accumulation , and maintaining the metabolic balance<symptom> , reducing cell apoptosis. Our study also showed that MLT can attenuate the IL-1β-induced activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway , which is the most important pathway downstream of IL-1β , and plays a crucial role in inflammation<symptom> , apoptosis , and metabolism. Thus , MLT has prospects for treating OA due to its multifaceted functions , such as mitigating inflammation<symptom> , maintaining metabolic balance<symptom> , and mitigating apoptosis.