  Ophthalmoplegia<symptom> is a disease that affects many people every year and is caused by reasons , such as cavernous sinus lesion<symptom> , intracranial aneurysm<disease> , diabetes , and trauma. Acupuncture has been widely used to treat ophthalmological diseases especially ophthalmoplegia<symptom> in China. Many clinical trials indicate that acupuncture may promote the recovery of extraocular muscles in ophthalmoplegia<symptom> patients. We aim to conduct a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for ophthalmoplegia<symptom>. We will retrieve the literature from the following electronic databases , by March 31 , 2018 , such as PubMed , EMBASE , the Cochrane Library , Web of Science database , Chinese BioMedical Literature Database , China National Knowledge Infrastructure , China Science and Technology Journal database , and Wanfang Database. We will also collect clinical trial registries , dissertations , grey literature , reference lists of studies , systematic reviews , and conference abstracts. Two people will review these articles , extract the data information , and assess the quality of studies separately. Data will be synthesized by either fixed-effects or random-effects model regarding to a heterogeneity test. The eyeball movement distance , size of fissure palpebrae , and the reduced degree of strabismus will be assessed as the primary outcomes. The secondary outcomes will be the size of the pupil , main symptom scores , ocular localization analysis , and functional impairment extent and safety. We will use the specific software called RevMan ( version 5.3) to perform the meta-analysis. This study will provide a high-quality synthesis based on current evidence of acupuncture for ophthalmoplegia<symptom> , especially its impacts on eyeball movement distance , size of fissure palpebrae , the reduced degree of strabismus , size of the pupil , main symptom scores , ocular localization analysis , and functional impairment extent and safety. Our systematic review will provide evidence to determine whether acupuncture is an effective and safe intervention for ophthalmoplegia<symptom> patients. It is not necessary for this systematic review to acquire an ethical approval. This review will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal or conference presentation. PROSPERO CRD42018091536.