  Efficacious bone substitute is essential for the treatment of a critical size bone defect. Currently , the bone substitutes commonly used in clinical practice lack osteogenic capacity and the therapeutic efficacy is not ideal. Herein , a novel stem cell screen-enrich-combine (- biomaterials) circulating system ( SECCS) was introduced to provide the substitutes with osteogenic ability. The stem cell screening , enrichment , and recombination with substitutes could be integrated during the surgical operation. Using SECCS , the bioactive mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs) and porous β-tricalcium phosphate ( β-TCP) composites ( MSCs/β-TCP) were rapidly prepared for critical size bone defect repair and validated in goat models of critical size tibia defects. Twelve goats with right hind<symptom> limb tibia defects of 30 mm were randomly divided into two groups: six ( the experimental group) were treated with MSCs/β-TCP prepared by SECCS and the other six goats ( the control group) were treated with pure porous β-TCP. The repair effect was assessed by x-ray , computed tomography ( CT) , micro-CT , histology and histomorphology 6 months after the operation. In addition , the enrichment efficacy of MSCs and the characteristics of the MSCs/β-TCP prepared by SECCS were evaluated. The SECCS could compound about 81.3 ± 3.0 % of the MSCs in bone<disease> marrow to the porous β-TCP without affecting the cell viability. The average number of MSCs for retransplantation was 27,655.0 ± 5011.6 for each goat from the experimental group. In vitro , satisfactory biocompatibility of the MSCs/β-TCP was performed , with the MSCs spreading adequately , proliferating actively , and retaining the osteogenic potential. In vivo , the defect repair by MSCs/β-TCP with good medullary cavity recanalization and cortical remodeling was significantly superior to that of pure porous β-TCP. The MSCs/β-TCP prepared through SECCS demonstrated significant therapeutic efficacy in goat models of critical size bone defect. This provides a novel therapeutic strategy for critical size bone defects caused by severe injury , infection , and bone tumor resection with a high profile of safety , effectiveness , simplicity , and ease.