  Anorectal foreign bodies ( AFBs) inserted into anus constitute one of the most important problems needing surgical emergency due to its complications. We describe our experience in the diagnosis and treatment of AFBs retained in the rectosigmoid colon. Between the years 2006 and 2015 , a total of 11 patients diagnosed with AFBs were admitted to an emergency room and general surgery clinics. They were diagnosed and treated in four different hospitals in four different cities in Turkey. Information on the AFBs , clinical presentation , treatment strategies , and outcomes were documented. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of these unusual patients. Eleven patients were involved in this study. All patients were male with their mean age was 49.81 ( range , 23-71) years. The time of the presentation to the removal of the foreign bodies ranged between 2 h and 96 h with a mean of 19.72 h. Ten patients inserted AFBs in the anus with the purpose of eroticism but one patient 's reason to relieve constipation<symptom>. The objects were one body spray can , two bottles , three dildos , two sticks , one water hose , one corncob , and one pointed squash. Three objects were removed transanally after anal dilatation under general anesthesia. Eight of the patients required laparotomy ( milking , primary suture , and colostomy). Five of the patients had perforation of the rectosigmoid colon. Abdominal<disease> abscess<disease> complicated extraction in one patient after the postoperative period. The hospitalization time of the patients was 6.18 ( 1-16) days. None of the patients died. A careful assessment is a key point for the correct diagnosis and treatment of AFBs. Clinical conditions of patients and type of AFBs are important in the choice of treatment strategy. If the AFBs are large , proximally migrated or the patients with an AFB have acute abdomen due to perforation , pelvic abscess<disease> , obstruction , or bleeding , surgery is needed as soon as possible. There are different types of surgical approaches such as less invasive transanal extraction under anesthesia and more invasive abdominal routes such as laparotomy or laparoscopy. The stoma can be done if there is colonic perforation. In the management of AFBs , the priority must be less invasive methods as possible.