  Due to current options of cardiac surgery , operations on the heart of elderly patients have become routine in specialized cardiosurgical centers. The issue of pre- and postoperative anemia<symptom> of different nature is essential in surgical correction of heart valves and coronary bypass. To study indexes of red blood in elderly patients with ischemic heart disease ( IHD) and pathology of heart valves before and after surgical correction , including the relationship with position and type of the prosthesis. 79 patients aged 61 ( 53; 67) were evaluated. The patients had acquired heart valve disease of rheumatic origin , manifestations of heart connective провоtissue dysplasia , and IHD and were admitted to a cardiosurgical hospital. Blood tests were performed using a hematological analyzer , Cell-Dyn 3700 ( USA) , before the surgery and on days 5 and 10 following the surgical correction. Reticulocytes were counted using a unified manual method in a blood smear stained with brilliant cresyl blue and expressed per 1000 red cells. Reticulocyte indexes ( corrected reticulocyte count , CRC , and reticulocyte production index , RPI) were computed. Elderly patients with a combination of acquired heart disease and mitral valve disease were characterized by preoperative morphological heterogenicity of red blood cells as evidenced by RDW. Postoperative anemia<symptom> associated with significant decreases in mean hemoglobin concentration , red cell count , and hematocrit , and increased morphological heterogenicity of red cell pool were observed in patients with IHD and heart valve pathology on days 5 and 10 of the postoperative period. During the early postoperative period , more pronounced changes in red cell heterogenicity were observed in patients with implanted disk mechanical prosthesis , particularly in mitral position. In the early postoperative period following the surgical correction , elderly patients with IHD and valve disease were characterized with a low reticulocyte production index , which indicated reduced proliferative activity of bone<disease> marrow. The fastest stabilization of red blood indexes occurred in patients after coronary bypass.