  Acute lung injury ( ALI) and its more severe form acute respiratory distress syndrome<disease> ( ARDS) are life-threatening conditions with high morbility and mortality , underscoring the urgent need for novel treatments. Leaves of the medicinal herb Microcos paniculata have been traditionally used for treating upper airway infections , by virtue of its content of flavonoids such as apigenin C-glycosides ( ACGs). C-glycosides have been shown to exert strong anti-inflammatory properties , although their mechanism of action remains unknown. Herein , hypothesizing that ACGs from M. paniculata inhibit progression of ALI , we used the experimental model of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS)- induced ALI in BALB/c mice to evaluate the therapeutic potential of purified ACGs. Our results showed that M. paniculata ACGs inhibited lung inflammation<symptom> in animals undergoing ALI. The protective effects of ACGs were assessed by determination of cytokine levels and in situ analysis of lung inflammation<symptom>. ACGs reduced the pulmonary<symptom> edema<symptom> and microvascular permeability , demonstrating a dose-dependent down-regulation of LPS-induced TNF-α , IL-6 and IL-1β expression in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid , along with reduced apoptosis. Moreover , metabolic profiling of mice serum and subsequent Ingenuity Pathway Analysis suggested that ACGs activated protective protein networks and pathways involving inflammatory regulators and apoptosis-related factors , such as JNK , ERK1/2 and caspase-3/ 7 , suggesting that ACGs-dependent effects were related to MAPKs and mitochondrial apoptosis pathways. These results were further supported by evaluation of protein expression , showing that ACGs blocked LPS-activated phosphorylation of p38 , ERK1/2 and JNK on the MAPKs signaling , and significantly upregulated the expression of Bcl-2 whilst down-regulated Bax and cleaved caspase-3. Remarkably , ACGs inhibited the LPS-dependent TLR4 and TRPC6 upregulation observed during ALI. Our study shows for the first time that ACGs inhibit acute<symptom> inflammation<symptom> and apoptosis by suppressing activation of TLR4/TRPC6 signaling pathway in a murine model of ALI. Our findings provide new evidence for better understanding the anti-inflammatory effects of ACGs. In this regard , ACGs could be exploited in the development of novel therapeutics for ALI and ARDS.