  Treatment cycling with biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs , such as tumor necrosis<symptom> factor inhibitors ( TNFi) , is common among patients with rheumatoid arthritis<disease> ( RA) and can result in reduced clinical efficacy and increased economic burden. Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor for the treatment of RA. To evaluate and compare the economic effect of tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily ( BID) treatment directly after methotrexate ( MTX) in the MTX-inadequate responder population , or after MTX and 1 TNFi ( adalimumab ( ADA) or etanercept ( ETN)) or 2 TNFi ( ADA and ETN) in TNF-inadequate responder patients with RA , from a U.S. payer perspective. A decision-tree economic model was used to evaluate costs over 2 years. Treatment response was modeled as American College of Rheumatology ( ACR) 20/50/70 response. ACR response rates at 6-month intervals were derived from U.S. prescribing information for monotherapy and combination therapy. Safety event rates were sourced from a meta-analysis. It was assumed that 75 % of patients switched therapy after an adverse event or lack of response. Cost inputs included drugs , monitoring and administration ( including physician visits) , health care utilization , and treatment for adverse events. The population comprised all organization members ( i.e. , RA and non-RA members); RA patients receiving TNFi were estimated using epidemiologic data. Results were based on an organization size of 1 million. Economic endpoints were total 2-year costs , costs per member per month ( PMPM) , and costs per ACR20/50 responder. 1,321 patients were included for analysis. Based on ACR20 switch criteria and either 100 % or 50 % monotherapy rates for all treatments , total 2-year costs and costs PMPM were lower for patients receiving tofacitinib as second-line therapy after MTX and as third-line therapy after MTX and 1 TNFi; costs were highest for patients who cycled through 2 TNFi. Similar trends were observed for switch criteria based on ACR50 response and addition of 20 % rebates for ADA and ETN and 0 % for tofacitinib , although differences were mitigated slightly. A treatment strategy with tofacitinib as either second- or third-line therapy after MTX may be a lower cost treatment option , compared with fourth-line introduction of tofacitinib after cycling through 2 TNFi following MTX. DISCLOSURES All aspects of this study were funded by Pfizer. Claxton was an employee of York Health Economics Consortium , University of York , at the time of this study. Taylor is an employee of York Health Economics Consortium , The University of York , which received funding from Pfizer to conduct this study. Soonasra , Bourret , and Gerber are employees of Pfizer and hold stock/stock options in Pfizer. A previous iteration of the data reported in this manuscript ( before adjustment for recent drug price increases) was presented at the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy 28th Annual Meeting and Expo , April 19-22 , 2016 , held in San Francisco , California.