  Giant serpentine aneurysms<disease> ( GSAs) were considered to be a subgroup of gaint intracranial aneurysm<disease> , distinct from saccular and fusiform varieties , which were defined as partially thrombosed giant aneurysm<disease> with tortuous internal vascular channel. The clinicopathological characteristics of giant serpentine middle cerebral artery aneurysm<disease> have been rarely reported in the literature and were discussed only radiologically. In this review we attempt to clarify patient clinical and neuroradiological features and to discuss the mechanism of formation and progression. we report a case of 43-year old women with a giant serpentine aneurysm<disease> ( GSA) arising from the middle cerebral artery ( MCA). There is a separate inflow and outflow channel of the aneurysm<disease> , of which the outflow channel feeds the distal branches of the parent artery and supplies normal brain parenchyma.The serpentine aneurysm<disease> was treated successfully by aneurysmectomy , superficial temporal artery ( STA)- MCA bypass followed by proximal occlusion and vascular reconstruction. The specimen from the aneurysm<disease> was obtained and was examined to correlate the pathologic findings and morphologic characteristics. Pathological results showed that the thickness of the aneurysmal wall was typically increased and varied , and there was no internal elastic lamina or endothelial lining could be identifed. The sac contains thrombi of various ages with recanalizing vessel formation and chronic inflammation<symptom> infiltration. Intimal hyperplasia<disease> and neoangiogenesis in the wall and hyaline degeneration of the media was observed. The vessels coursing in their adventitia showed mucoid change , which are responsible for the contrast enhancement of the aneurysmal rim on Computed Tomography ( CT) scan. GSAs are a specific pathologic entity , with unique morphological and pathological characteristics , that can affect the intracranial blood vessels. The pathogenic mechanisms were unclear , this report suggested that GSAs occurrence may be associated with the degeneration of the vascular wall.