  Systematic survey of data from cases of suspected poisoning<disease> in small animal practices. In 11 exemplary selected small animal practices , patient files from cases of suspected poisoning<disease> over 2006/2007 , data entry forms of poisonings<disease> 2009-2010 and the contact group , which are all patients with at least one visit in 2007 , were analysed. In 2007 , approximately 1 in 200 dog and 1 in 500 cat patients were presented with poisoning<disease>. More than 70 % of cases concerned dogs. Some breeds of hunting dogs were more frequently affected than expected from their percentage in the practice population. Suspicion of poisoning<disease> was retrospective mainly founded in neutered dogs. In addition to numerous unspecific symptoms , bleeding was frequently observed. With central nervous system symptoms or a critical general condition a founded suspicion was observed more frequently. In cases of unfounded suspicion , inflammation<symptom> of the gastrointestinal tract was mostly present. Other frequently seen diseases were infections , tumours and autoimmune diseases. The main toxins in the retrospective evaluation were coumarin derivatives ( 37 %) , drugs ( 10 %) and chocolate ( 7 %). The prospective survey yielded a higher percentage of poisoning<disease> with drugs and plants. The diagnosis was mainly based on case history and clinical signs. Therapy was predominantly symptomatic. Poisoning with coumarin derivatives is the most frequent intoxication in dogs , but also cats. The risk from permethrin for cats remains current. In daily practice , therapy is mostly symptomatic without any specific toxicological evidence. Consequently , the causative toxin is frequently unknown. Therefore , additional methods for elimination ( stomach/rectal lavage , medical coal , lipid therapy) should be included as therapeutical options. For a successful systematic prospective survey in daily practice a good collaboration between practice and investigator is necessary.