  Granulomatosis with polyangiitis-a primary systemic vasculitis-most frequent manifestations are respiratory. Airway disease can present with stenosis , and although subglottic stenosis ( SGS) is well described , narrowing distal to the glottis has been more recently the focus of reporting. Our objectives , therefore , are to describe the frequency , characteristics , and treatment of tracheobronchial stenoses ( TBS) in granulomatosis with polyangiitis ( GPA) at our institution , a national referral center for respiratory<disease> diseases<disease>. Also , to identify factors associated with TBS development in GPA. We undertook a retrospective study of all identified TBS cases ( n-29) in whom their demographics , clinical and paraclinical features , and treatment were analyzed with descriptive statistics. Comparisons between those who developed and did not develop TBS ( n-79) were established with the χ Females were predominantly affected by TBS ( 76 %). Most patients had limited GPA ( n-20 , 69 %). TBS appeared at a mean of 29 months after diagnosis of GPA. Main symptoms were dysphonia<symptom> , stridor , and dyspnea<symptom>. All TBS patients had tracheal involvement and 12 ( 41 %) additional bronchial stenoses. Other accompanying manifestations by organ/system were rhinosinusal ( n-26 , 87 %) , musculoskeletal ( n-16 , 55 %) , ocular ( n-13 , 45 %) , pulmonary ( n-12 , 41 %) , renal ( n-8 , 27 %) , mucocutaneous ( n-5 , 17 %) , neurological ( n-4 , 13 %). At TBS diagnosis , 17 patients were PR3-ANCA and/or C-ANCA positive , while 9 were MPO-ANCA and/or P-ANCA positive; results on the remaining were either negative or ANCA were not performed at that time. Seventeen patients had simultaneous medical ( 8 with glucocorticoid therapy , 9 with immunosuppressants) and surgical therapy , while the rest only the latter at the time of TBS diagnosis. Relapses were frequent ( one in 18 patients; two in 11 , three in 9 and 2 individuals had ≥ 4 relapses). Factors positively associated with TBS were the presence of general and musculoskeletal symptoms and rhinosinusal disease , while those negatively associated were prednisone oral daily dose > 10mgqd and azathioprine intake. The extent of disease , either generalized or limited was not associated with TBS development , nor were ANCA levels. TBS are serious complications of GPA which can arise at any stage of the disease. Timely diagnosis plus optimal treatment and follow-up remain unmet needs.