  To introduce a creation that combines laparoscopic and Wharton-Sheares-George cervicovaginal reconstruction using SIS graft in a patient with Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser ( MRKH) syndrome<disease> who had a rudimentary cavity ( U5aC4V4). Video article introducing a new surgical technique. University hospital. A 24-year-old patient had primary amenorrhea and irregular lower abdominal<symptom> pain<symptom> for 9 years. The patient was Tanner stage 3 for pubic hair and Tanner stage 4 for breast development. Physical examination revealed no vagina. A primordial uterus and a uterus with a rudimentary cavity were detected by MRI. However , the rudimentary cavity had no hematometra. MRI also found left solitary kidney. The diagnosis was MRKH syndrome<disease> with a rudimentary cavity ( U5aC4V4). The patient desires resumption of menses and possible future fertility. Combined laparoscopic and Wharton-Sheares-George cervicovaginal reconstruction using SIS graft was performed. With the Wharton-Sheares-George neovaginoplasty , a vaginal mold with surrounding SIS graft was inserted into the newly created cavity. By laparoscopy , the lower uterine segment was incised by shape dissection. The proximal segment of the SIS graft to the lower uterine segment was sutured. A T-shaped IUD with a Foley catheter was fixed in the uterine cavity by the delay absorbed sutures to prevent the cervical or vaginal stenosis. The distal segment of the SIS graft was sutured with the high vaginal or vestibular mucosa vaginally. The operation was successfully completed. The operating time was 2 hours. Hospitalization was 4 days. There were no blood transfusion and complications. The patient had resumption of menses for 2 cycles postoperatively and she had no aysmenorrhea. The patient did not have sexual intercourse because the mode in vagina to prevent vagina stenosis. No cervical stenosis occurred due to the Foley catheter. In the past , the uterus with a rudimentary cavity of the MRKH patients was always excised. And the patients lost the chance of menstrual onset and fertility. Combined laparoscopic and Wharton-Sheares-George cervicovaginal reconstruction using SIS graft provided a minimally invasive , safe , and effective surgical option for the young patient with MRKH syndrome<disease> with a rudimentary cavity. The technique is not complex and easy to learn and perform. And it provided a result with functional and anatomical satisfaction. No special surgical apparatus is needed.