  Re-operative penile reconstruction is challenging and requires tension-free skin closure. The repair popularized by Cecil and Culp in the 1940s , using the scrotum to provide a temporary vascularized bed for complex hypospadias repairs , fell out of favor due to temporal trends towards single-stage repairs and concern for utilizing hair-bearing skin on the penile shaft. It was hypothesized that a modified Cecil-Culp ( CC) concept of penile scrotalization , leaving the penis attached to the scrotum for 1 year rather than 6 weeks as originally described , improves outcomes with this reconstruction for ventral skin deficiency or poor vascular support. Institutional Review Board-approved registries were reviewed to identify patients who underwent a CC repair during 1987-2016 at two institutions. Cecil-Culp technique was utilized in multi-stage hypospadias complication repairs or for insufficient ventral penile shaft skin coverage. Anatomic abnormality , number and type of prior surgeries , and complications before and after CC were recorded. Thirty-nine patients underwent CC: 23 failed hypospadias repairs , three hypospadias after bladder exstrophy , 10 penile curvature following circumcision , and three with skin<symptom> loss<symptom> from trauma. Mean age at CC was 61.8 months ( hypospadias) , and 59.8 months ( non-hypospadias). Hypospadias patients underwent a mean of 3.6 surgeries ( range 1-9) prior to CC. Four of the 39 patients ( 10.3 %) had perioperative complications after CC , including scrotal abscess<disease> , skin<disease> infections<disease> , and difficulty removing the urethral stent. Eight of 37 ( 21.6 %) patients had longer-term complications related to their hypospadias repair , including fistulae<disease> , diverticula , dehiscence , and stricture. Mean time from CC placement to release was 345 and 473 days for hypospadias and non-hypospadias cases , respectively. There was no apparent scrotal skin transferred to the penile shaft at the final take-down. Mean follow-up was 22.3 months. Embedding the penis into the scrotum for added vascularity and ventral skin coverage has been used effectively in cases of the most tenacious fistulas<disease> and for significant skin<symptom> loss<symptom> and trauma. Limitations of this study were its retrospective approach at two institutions over an extended period of time by multiple surgeons , so patient selection and procedure may have varied. Modification of CC repair by delaying 9-12 months before CC take-down enhanced the benefits of a robust vascular bed for wound<disease> healing , and helped to avoid transfer of hair-bearing scrotal skin<symptom> to the penile shaft. The CC technique is an important tool for penile reconstructive surgery of complex hypospadias repairs with inadequate skin , and for traumatic injuries.