  Vesicular stomatitis ( VS) is caused by a contagious rhabdovirus that affects horses , cattle , and swine. Clinical signs of vesicular stomatitis virus ( VSV) infection in pigs and cattle are indistinguishable from foot-and-mouth disease ( FMD) , a foreign animal disease and reportable disease in the United States ( Rodriguez et al. , 2000). A VS epidemic occurred in the Rocky<disease> Mountain region in 2014-15. A study was conducted in Colorado to evaluate horse- and management-level factors associated with VS. For a horse to be considered a clinical VS horse , there were two requirements. First , clinical VS horses had to have clinical signs consistent with VS , including one or more of the following: vesicles , ulcers<disease> , erosions or crusting on the muzzle , nares , lips , oral or nasal mucosa , ears<disease> , ventrum , udder or penile sheath , or coronary band lesions<symptom>. Second , clinical VS horses had to have laboratory confirmation of VSV exposure via virus isolation from lesions<symptom> or a positive complement fixation test performed on sera. All non-clinical horses residing on VSV-affected premises enrolled in the study were evaluated for exposure ( i.e. , seroconversion) to VSV. Overall , management and housing data were collected from 334 horses on 48 premises in Colorado. Approximately one-third ( 31.4 %) of enrolled horses were clinical cases and two-thirds ( 68.6 %) were controls. Three premises-matched logistic regression models were constructed in SAS using backward elimination ( P-value < 0.05) after univariate screening of a priori-selected variables ( P-value < 0.20). Model outcomes included differences in characteristics and management of 1) clinical and nonclinical horses , 2) exposed and unexposed horses , and 3) exposed nonclinical and unexposed nonclinical horses. Overall , factors most strongly associated with risk of being a VS clinical horse were access to pasture ( P-value = 0.002) , and pregnancy status ( P-value = 0.001). Factors most strongly associated with VSV exposure among horses were access to pasture ( P-value = 0.003) and lack of any insect control ( P-value = 0.001). The only factor associated with VSV-exposed nonclinical horses compared with unexposed VSV horses was contact with clinical horses ( P-value = 0.013). There were no associations identified regarding clinical horses compared with exposed nonclinical horses. With regard to severity of lesions<symptom> ( severe vs. moderate or mild) , no variables met the criteria for inclusion in the multivariable model. Results of this study provide evidence that pasture access and fly control are important factors associated with VSV exposure.