  The reason for increased cardiovascular risk in inflammatory arthritis<disease> ( IA) is unclear. Interestingly , selenium-deficiency is suspected to contribute to the development of cardiovascular disease ( CVD) in the general population. Although the reference range of serum selenium ( s-selenium) is 50-120 μg/L , there are indications that levels up to 85 μg/L might not be sufficient for optimal cardioprotection. Our aim was to examine s-selenium levels in rheumatoid arthritis<disease> ( RA) , psoriatic arthritis<disease> ( PsA) and ankylosing spondylitis ( AS) , to evaluate the effect of anti-rheumatic treatment on s-selenium levels , and to assess relationships between s-selenium levels and clinical and laboratory parameters including markers of disease activity and CVD risk. We examined 64 patients with RA , 40 with PsA and 26 with AS starting with methotrexate ( MTX) monotherapy or anti-tumor necrosis<symptom> factor therapy ( anti-TNF) with or without methotrexate ( anti-TNF ± MTX) due to active disease. S-selenium , inflammatory biomarkers , endothelial function ( EF) and other variables were examined at baseline and after 6 weeks and 6 months of treatment. In the total IA group , s-selenium increased within 6 weeks of anti-rheumatic treatment , and thereafter the levels remained stable until the end of the 6 months follow-up period. There were no significant differences in s-selenium changes between the three diagnostic groups and between the two treatment regimens. Changes in s-selenium were negatively related to changes in C-reactive protein ( CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR) , but there were no significant relationships to any other of the examined risk parameters for CVD including EF. IA patients had s-selenium within the reference range , but below the level that might be necessary for optimal CVD protection. Anti-rheumatic treatment had a relatively rapid and sustained effect on s-selenium levels. The increase in s-selenium was related to reduction in inflammatory activity. In theory , anti-rheumatic drugs might improve s-selenium levels through inhibition of pro-inflammatory processes or through other mechanisms. Although we have not revealed any significant relationships between s-selenium and CVD risk parameters , the role of suboptimal s-selenium levels in pathogenesis of premature CVD in IA can not be ruled out.