  The present study investigated the effects of dietary supplementation of yeast nucleotides on the hematology , antioxidant activity , non-specific immunity , expression of intestinal cytokines , and disease resistance in Nile Tilapia ( Oreochromis niloticus). Fish weighing 42.90 ± 0.14 g were randomly divided into four groups. Each group was set in triplicate ( 15 fish per replicate). Fish were fed on four dietary levels of yeast nucleotides ( NTs) supplemented with the basal diet 0 % ( control) , 0.05 % , 0.15 % , and 0.25 % NTs. Significantly higher total serum protein , albumin , total serum globulin , total WBC counts , and lymphocyte<symptom> and granulocyte contents were recorded in 0.25 % NT group as compared to the control. The albumin/globulin ratio ( A: G) showed a considerable decrease in the 0.25 % NT group. The non-specific immune parameters; serum killing percentage , lysozyme activity , nitric oxide assay , IgM levels , and anti-protease activity , were significantly higher in the 0.25 % NT group as compared to the control. Moreover , a 15-day feeding trial demonstrated improved results in terms of serum lysozyme activity , nitric oxide assay , IgM levels , and anti-protease activity than a 30-day feeding trial. A significant increase in the anti-oxidant status of O. niloticus was noticed , as reflected by increased superoxide dismutase and malondialdehyde activity in the serum of 0.25 % NT group compared to the control , while glutathione peroxidase displayed a significant increase in all groups as compared to the control. The intestinal cytokines TGF-β , IL-1β , IL-10β , and TNF-α mRNA levels showed a pattern of 0.25 % NT > 0.15 % NT > 0.05 % NT > 0 % NT , as relative to the control Ef-1α levels. The relative survival percentages of fish fed on yeast nucleotide-supplemented diets , as analyzed by exposure to Aeromonas sobria , were significantly better than the control group. In conclusion , dietary yeast nucleotide administration at 0.25 % improved blood proteins , leukocytes , antioxidant activity , non-specific immunity , cytokine gene expression , and disease resistance of Nile<disease> Tilapia.