  The cerebellum is a brain region which is particularly susceptible to intoxication. Clinical presentation is heterogeneous. It is often considered that elderly patients and patients presenting pre-existing structural lesions<symptom> of the posterior fossa are particularly at risk of developing a toxic-induced cerebellar syndrome<disease> ( TOICS). However , TOICS may occur at any age , including in utero. Indeed , the cerebellum is highly vulnerable during neurodevelopment. Amongst cerebellotoxic agents , ethanol is the most commonly implicated. The vermis is a privileged target. Ethanol exerts toxic effects upon neurons , glia ( especially astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) , and myelin sheaths. Prenatal alcohol exposure causes teratogenic effects on the developing cerebellum , impeding neuronal migration and differentiation. In adults , cerebellar ataxia<symptom> is a major feature of both acute and chronic ethanol intoxication. Wernicke encephalopathy is a medical emergency characterized by a triad of ophthalmoplegia<symptom> , ataxia<symptom> , and impaired mental<symptom> status<symptom>. It requires the immediate administration of high doses of thiamine by the intravenous route. The following drugs may induce a permanent cerebellar syndrome<disease>: phenytoin , lithium salts , antineoplastics , and heroin. In addition to ethanol and drugs , environmental agents are also a source of TOICS. In particular , the cerebellum is susceptible to metal intoxication. The recently described deposits of gadolinium in cerebellar nuclei in patients who had received multiple intravenous administrations are a matter of concern on a worldwide scale but we still lack the demonstration of clinically relevant effects upon motor , oculomotor , or cognitive function. Because cerebellar symptoms may be subtle or immersed in a complex encephalopathy with combined involvement of the peripheral nervous system , the diagnosis of TOICS is often overlooked. The life-threatening risk of edema<symptom> of the posterior fossa with compression of the brainstem should be kept in mind , including in cases of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome<disease> , and requires posterior fossa decompression when acute hydrocephalus<symptom> occurs.