  Any acute event , either primary or secondary to a chronic<disease> disease<disease> , is generally followed by some degree of physical impairment. The Sub-Acute Care ( SAC) represents one of the inpatient intermediate care settings aimed at completing recovery and restoring functional capacity. Debate exists on the role of the rehabilitation treatment in the SAC setting. To compare the outcomes of patients managed in two different SAC Units where A) patients undergo an individualized rehabilitation program on top of optimal medical therapy ( OMT) B patients receive OMT only. Real-life prospective study. Sub-acute care units. Seventy-five chronic<symptom> heart<symptom> failure<symptom> ( CHF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD) patients transferred after an acute hospitalisation. Upon SAC admission , the following scales were obtained: cumulative illness rating scale comorbidity and severity ( CIRSC and CIRSS) , mini mental state examination ( MMSE) , Performance Oriented Mobility Assessment ( POMA) , Barthel Index ( BI) , the 10-meter walking test ( 10MWT). Pre-admission BI was also collected based on history. Upon SAC discharge , BI , POMA , and 10MWT were repeated. Patients ( 44 in Group A , and 31 in Group B) were similar with regard to age , gender , MMSE , clinical complexity , pre-admission BI , admission 10MWT , POMA , and bedrest conditions. Admission BI was lower in Group A. In both groups BI was lower when compared to the respective pre-admission score. Upon discharge , Group A patients were characterised by a higher BI and POMA compared to Group B. Indeed , BI and POMA improved at discharge only in Group A patients. Only this latter group reached the pre-morbid BI. Upon discharge the number of bed rest patients decreased only in Group A. The percentage of patients discharged home was also much higher in Group A , while a greater number of Group B patients were transferred to a rehabilitation ward or were enrolled in an integrated home care assistance program. In a real-life prospective experience , a better outcome is demonstrated in elderly CHF and COPD patients undergoing a rehabilitative approach during their in-hospital SAC stay. An individualised rehabilitation program should integrate medical treatment of CHF and BPCO patients in the SAC setting. This approach demonstrates a better cost-effectiveness management of these patients.