  Psychotic spectrum disorder ( PSD) links the syndromes<disease> of bipolar disorder , psychotic depression<symptom> , and schizophrenia , often viewed as unique disorders. Application of the PSD concept to a single patient rather than across groups of patients and demonstration of a remarkable remission of schizophrenia phenotype with recovery of gray matter in specific brain regions. We report a woman who experienced discrete , nonoverlapping periods of each of the above syndromes<disease> , in the order noted , over a 30-year period , followed by abrupt ending of psychosis and full remission lasting at least 7 years. This patient had 2 episodes of Bipolar 1 mania , followed by a 20-year period of psychotic depression<symptom> From ages 35-48 , she manifested severe , paranoid schizophrenia with marked functional decline. She became refractory to antipsychotic drugs , including oral risperidone and clozapine. At age 48 , while participating in a double-blind , 6-month clinical trial of long-acting injectable risperidone ( Consta ® , 100 mg IM biweekly) for treatment-resistant schizophrenia , at week 23 , upon awakening , complete disappearance of psychosis and marked improvement in function was noted , which persisted until the present ( approximately 7 years). Remarkably , cognitive test performance in most domains improved beginning at 6 weeks and reached normal levels in executive function , despite minimal improvement in psychosis until week 23. MRI studies before and after remission revealed unique and substantial increases in gray matter of the cingulate and parietal cortex , and subthalamic nucleus , not seen in other patients in this study. The 3 discrete periods of psychopathology support the diagnosis of PSD. The unusual course and outcome , including remarkable improvement , in executive function and enhanced cortical gray matter in selective brain regions may have been the result of unique endogenous genetic and epigenetic factors and effect of medication.