  The goal of this study was to use machine learning to more accurately predict survival after echocardiography. Predicting patient outcomes ( e.g. , survival) following echocardiography is primarily based on ejection fraction ( EF) and comorbidities. However , there may be significant predictive information within additional echocardiography-derived measurements combined with clinical electronic health record data. Mortality was studied in 171,510 unselected patients who underwent 331,317 echocardiograms in a large regional health system. We investigated the predictive performance of nonlinear machine learning models compared with that of linear logistic regression models using 3 different inputs: 1) clinical variables , including 90 cardiovascular-relevant International Classification of Diseases , Tenth Revision , codes , and age , sex , height , weight , heart rate , blood<symptom> pressures<symptom> , low-density lipoprotein , high-density lipoprotein , and smoking; 2) clinical variables plus physician-reported EF; and 3) clinical variables and EF , plus 57 additional echocardiographic measurements. Missing data were imputed with a multivariate imputation by using a chained equations algorithm ( MICE). We compared models versus each other and baseline clinical scoring systems by using a mean area under the curve ( AUC) over 10 cross-validation folds and across 10 survival durations ( 6 to 60 months). Machine learning models achieved significantly higher prediction accuracy ( all AUC > 0.82) over common clinical risk scores ( AUC = 0.61 to 0.79) , with the nonlinear random forest<disease> models outperforming logistic regression ( p < 0.01). The random forest<disease> model including all echocardiographic measurements yielded the highest prediction accuracy ( p < 0.01 across all models and survival durations). Only 10 variables were needed to achieve 96 % of the maximum prediction accuracy , with 6 of these variables being derived from echocardiography. Tricuspid regurgitation velocity was more predictive of survival than LVEF. In a subset of studies with complete data for the top 10 variables , multivariate imputation by chained equations yielded slightly reduced predictive accuracies ( difference in AUC of 0.003) compared with the original data. Machine learning can fully utilize large combinations of disparate input variables to predict survival after echocardiography with superior accuracy.