  Although several studies link high levels of IL-6 and soluble IL-6 receptor ( sIL-6R) to asthma severity and decreased lung function , the role of IL-6 trans-signaling ( IL-6TS) in asthmatic patients is unclear. We sought to explore the association between epithelial IL-6TS pathway activation and molecular and clinical phenotypes in asthmatic patients. An IL-6TS gene signature obtained from air-liquid interface cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells stimulated with IL-6 and sIL-6R was used to stratify lung epithelial transcriptomic data ( Unbiased Biomarkers in Prediction of Respiratory<disease> Disease<disease> Outcomes ( U-BIOPRED) cohorts) by means of hierarchical clustering. IL-6TS-specific protein markers were used to stratify sputum<symptom> biomarker data ( Wessex cohort). Molecular phenotyping was based on transcriptional profiling of epithelial brushings , pathway analysis , and immunohistochemical analysis of bronchial biopsy specimens. Activation of IL-6TS in air-liquid interface cultures reduced epithelial integrity and induced a specific gene signature enriched in genes associated with airway remodeling. The IL-6TS signature identified a subset of patients with IL-6TS-high asthma with increased epithelial expression of IL-6TS-inducible genes in the absence of systemic inflammation<symptom>. The IL-6TS-high subset had an overrepresentation of frequent exacerbators , blood eosinophilia , and submucosal infiltration of T cells and macrophages. In bronchial brushings Toll-like receptor pathway genes were upregulated , whereas expression of cell junction genes was reduced. Sputum<symptom> sIL-6R and IL-6 levels correlated with sputum<symptom> markers of remodeling and innate immune activation , in particular YKL-40 , matrix metalloproteinase 3 , macrophage inflammatory protein 1β , IL-8 , and IL-1β. Local lung epithelial IL-6TS activation in the absence of type 2 airway inflammation<symptom> defines a novel subset of asthmatic patients and might drive airway inflammation<symptom> and epithelial dysfunction in these patients.