  The plants of the enigmatic genus Rafflesia are well known for their gigantic flowers and their floral features such as pungent floral scent and vivid dark color , which mimics the food/brood sites of carrion<disease>. However , information on the pollination biology of this plant group remains limited and mostly anecdotal. In the present paper , we studied the floral volatiles of R. cantleyi Solms-Laubach and their role in pollinator attraction. To achieve these aims , the floral scent was collected in situ in the field using a dynamic headspace method followed by chemical analysis via GC-MS. The olfactory preferences of pollinators to the identified chemical compounds , were tested singly and in blends , in flight tunnel bioassays and compared with responses to headspace floral extracts. In addition , flower-visiting calliphorid flies and the local carrion<disease> fly community were sampled and identified. Five species of calliphorid flies ( subfamilies of Chrysomyinae and Calliphorinae) , all females , were found on the flowers , whereas nine species were found in the traps that were baited with tainted meat in the surrounding habitat. However , only flower visitors of one blow fly species , Chrysomya chani Kurahashi , were observed to carry R. cantleyi pollen after visiting male flowers. The floral volatiles emitted by male flowers in full bloom were dominated by two sulphur-containing compounds , dimethyl disulfide ( DMDS) and dimethyl trisulfide ( DMTS). These were accompanied by other minor compounds such as benzenoids ( 4) , monoterpenoids ( 4) , trace amounts of aliphatic compounds ( 1) , and sesquiterpenes ( 1). In flight-tunnel bioassays , a female-specific positive response of C. chani<symptom> flies to individual DMDS , DMTS , and a blend of DMDS and DMTS was evident. Our findings suggest that R. cantleyi biochemically mimics carrion<disease> and that relative ratio of oligosulfides in the floral scent play a key role in sex-biased pollinator specialization , attracting only female C. chani<symptom> carrion<disease> flies to the flowers.