  Renal hematomas ( RH) are a rare complication of retrograde endoscopic lithotripsy ( REL). This study aimed to investigate the incidence and causes of RH after REL in patients with ureteral stones of different locations. From 2001 to 2016 , 1214 REL were performed at the Urology Clinic of the Mechnikov NWSMU. The analyzes of patients who had RH after REL included the following parameters: age , gender , history of upper urinary tract ( UUT) surgery and concomitant diseases ( diabetes mellitus , hypertension) , the baseline kidney function , the stone characteristics and the degree of hydronephrosis observed in the postoperative period , results of laboratory tests , ultrasound and spiral computed tomography ( SCT) of the kidneys. Renal hematomas were diagnosed in 4 ( 0.3 %) of 1214 patients aged 36 to 50 years who had obstructive upper ureteral stones measuring from 0.8 to 1.2 cm in diameter. Three of them previously had UUT surgery: two had REL , and one female patient with a solitary left kidney twice underwent percutaneous nephro- and ureterolithotripsy. All four patients had a triad of symptoms: side flank pain , fever<disease> , and anemia<symptom> In three patients hematomas were diagnosed on day 2-3 and in one it was found two weeks after the surgery. Two of them were managed with conservative therapy , including bed rest and antibiotics. One patient underwent an ultrasound guided puncture and drainage of the hematoma. In the patient with a solitary kidney , laparoscopic drainage of RH was performed due to growing hematoma and aggravating renal insufficiency. Two patients received blood transfusions. Follow-up kidney SCT showed complete resolution of hematomas in all patients. Renal hematomas are a rare but serious complication of REL. The presence of side flank pain , fever<disease> and anemia<symptom> may be indicative of REL and requires a kidney ultrasound. Management of RH should be patient specific , depending on the severity of the patients condition.