  Stereoelectroencephalography ( sEEG) is a diagnostic procedure for patients with refractory focal epilepsies that is performed to localize and define the epileptogenic zone. In contrast to grid electrodes , sEEG electrodes are implanted using minimal invasive operation techniques without large craniotomies. Previous studies provided good evidence that sEEG implantation is a safe and effective procedure; however , complications in asymptomatic patients after explantation may be underreported. The aim of this analysis was to systematically analyze clinical and imaging data following implantation and explantation. We analyzed 18 consecutive patients ( mean age: 30.5 years , range: 12-46; 61 % female) undergoing invasive presurgical video-EEG monitoring via sEEG electrodes ( n = 167 implanted electrodes) over a period of 2.5 years with robot-assisted implantation. There were no neurological deficits reported after implantation or explantation in any of the enrolled patients. Postimplantation imaging showed a minimal subclinical subarachnoid hemorrhage<symptom> in one patient and further workup revealed a previously unknown factor VII deficiency. No injuries or status epilepticus occurred during video-EEG monitoring. In one patient , a seizure-related asymptomatic cross break of two fixation screws was found and led to revision surgery. Unspecific symptoms like headaches<symptom> or low-grade fever<disease> were present in 10 of 18 ( 56 %) patients during the first days of video-EEG monitoring and were transient. Postexplantation imaging showed asymptomatic and small bleedings<symptom> close to four electrodes ( 2.8 %). Overall , sEEG is a safe and well-tolerated procedure. Systematic imaging after implantation and explantation helps to identify clinically silent complications of sEEG. In the literature , complication rates of up to 4.4 % in sEEG and in 49.9 % of subdural EEG are reported; however , systematic imaging after explantation was not performed throughout the studies , which may have led to underreporting of associated complications.