  Neurodegeneration is characterized by protein aggregate deposits and mitochondrial malfunction. Reduction in Tom40 ( translocase<disease> of outer membrane 40) expression , a key subunit of the translocase<disease> of the outer mitochondrial membrane complex , led to accumulation of ubiquitin ( Ub)- positive protein aggregates engulfed by Atg8a-positive membranes<symptom>. Other macroautophagy markers were also abnormally accumulated. Autophagy was induced but the majority of autophagosomes failed to fuse with lysosomes when Tom40 was downregulated. In Tom40 RNAi tissues , autophagosome-like ( AL) structures , often not sealed , were 10 times larger than starvation induced autophagosomes. Atg5 downregulation abolished Tom40 RNAi induced AL structure formation , but the Ub-positive aggregates remained , whereas knock down of Syx17 , a gene required for autophagosome-lysosome fusion , led to the disappearance of giant AL structures and accumulation of small autophagosomes and phagophores near the Ub-positive aggregates. The protein aggregates contained many mitochondrial preproteins , cytosolic proteins , and proteasome subunits. Proteasome activity and ATP levels were reduced and the ROS levels was increased in Tom40 RNAi tissues. The simultaneous inhibition of proteasome activity , reduction in ATP production , and increase in ROS , but none of these conditions alone , can mimic the imbalanced proteostasis phenotypes observed in Tom40 RNAi cells. Knockdown of ref ( 2) P or ectopic expression of Pink1 and park greatly reduced aggregate formation in Tom40 RNAi tissues. In nerve tissues , reduction in Tom40 activity leads to aggregate formation and neurodegeneration. Rather than diminishing the neurodegenerative phenotypes , overexpression of Pink1 enhanced them. We proposed that defects in mitochondrial protein import may be the key to linking imbalanced proteostasis and mitochondrial defects. AL: autophagosome-like; Atg12: Autophagy-related 12; Atg14: Autophagy-related 14; Atg16: Autophagy-related 16; Atg5: Autophagy-related 5; Atg6: Autophagy-related 6; Atg8a: Autophagy-related 8a; Atg9: Autophagy-related 9; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; Cas9: CRISPR associated protein 9; cDNA: complementary DNA; COX4: Cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; Cyt-c1: Cytochrome c1; DAPI: 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride; Dcr-2: Dicer-2; FLP: Flippase recombination enzyme; FRT: FLP recombination target; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GO: gene ontology; gRNA: guide RNA; Hsp60: Heat shock<symptom> protein 60A; HDAC6: Histone deacetylase 6; htt: huntingtin; Idh: Isocitrate dehydrogenase; IFA: immunofluorescence assay; Irp-1A: Iron regulatory protein 1A; kdn: knockdown; Marf: Mitochondrial assembly regulatory factor; MitoGFP: Mitochondrial-GFP; MS: mass spectrometry; MTPAP: mitochondrial poly ( A) polymerase; Nmnat: Nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase; OE: overexpression; Pink1/PINK1: PTEN-induced putative kinase 1; polyQ: polyglutamine; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; Prosα4: proteasome α4 subunit; Prosβ1: proteasome β1 subunit; Prosβ5: proteasome β5 subunit; Prosβ7: proteasome β7 subunit; ref ( 2) P: refractory to sigma P; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RNAi: RNA interference; ROS: reactive oxygen species; Rpn11: Regulatory particle non-ATPase 11; Rpt2: Regulatory particle triple-A ATPase 2; scu: scully; sicily: severe impairment of CI with lengthened youth; sesB: stress-sensitive B; Syx17: Syntaxin17; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; ttm50: tiny tim 50; Tom: translocase<disease> of the outer membrane; Tom20: translocase<disease> of outer membrane 20; Tom40: translocase<disease> of outer membrane 40; Tom70: translocase<disease> of outer membrane 70; UAS: upstream active sequence; Ub: ubiquitin; VNC: ventral nerve cord; ZFYVE1: zinc finger FYVE-type containing 1.