  Rheumatoid arthritis<disease> ( RA) , the most common autoimmune disease in the UK , is a chronic systemic inflammatory arthritis<disease> that affects 0.8 % of the UK population. To determine whether or not an alternative class of biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs ( bDMARDs) are comparable to rituximab in terms of efficacy and safety outcomes in patients with RA in whom initial tumour necrosis<symptom> factor inhibitor ( TNFi) bDMARD and methotrexate ( MTX) therapy failed because of inefficacy. Multicentre , Phase III , open-label , parallel-group , three-arm , non-inferiority randomised controlled trial comparing the clinical and cost-effectiveness of alternative TNFi and abatacept with that of rituximab ( and background MTX therapy). Eligible consenting patients were randomised in a 1: 1: 1 ratio using minimisation incorporating a random element. Minimisation factors were centre , disease duration , non-response category and seropositive/seronegative status. UK outpatient rheumatology departments. Patients aged ≥ 18 years who were diagnosed with RA and were receiving MTX , but had not responded to two or more conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapies and had shown an inadequate treatment response to a first TNFi. Alternative TNFi , abatacept or rituximab ( and continued background MTX). The primary outcome was absolute reduction in the Disease Activity Score of 28 joints ( DAS28) at 24 weeks post randomisation. Secondary outcome measures over 48 weeks were additional measures of disease activity , quality of life , cost-effectiveness , radiographic measures , safety and toxicity. Owing to third-party contractual issues , commissioning challenges delaying centre set-up and thus slower than expected recruitment , the funders terminated the trial early. Between July 2012 and December 2014 , 149 patients in 35 centres were registered , of whom 122 were randomised to treatment ( alternative TNFi , The results will add to the randomised evidence base and could be included in future meta-analyses. How to manage first-line TNFi treatment failures remains unresolved. Had the trial recruited to target , more credible evidence on whether or not either of the interventions were non-inferior to rituximab may have been provided , although this remains speculative. Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN89222125 and ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01295151. This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research ( NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in