  Cystic intestinal pneumatosis ( CIP) is the presence of gas bubbles inside the wall of the intestine. In literature it has been reported to be associated with a variety of clinical conditions such as: superior mesenteric ischemia , intestinal perforation , bowel necrosis<symptom> , infections which can cause mucosal alterations and therefore increasing its permeability , necrotizing enterocolitis<disease> in babies , trauma , intestinal obstruction , autoimmune and pulmonary pathologies. Its presence is usually documented by radiological techniques such as abdominal X-ray , CT scan and endoscopy and are usually characterized by the typical pattern of gas bubbles in the wall of the intestine. Majority of cases may be managed conservatively but intramural gas resulting from bowel necrosis<symptom> represents a surgical emergency. We admitted an 86- year old man who presented with mild to moderate and persistent non-specific abdominal<symptom> pain<symptom> recurring for the last three weeks. No history of previous surgery was recorded. On examination , bowel sounds<symptom> were dull and rare , general tenderness<symptom> on the left of the abdomen but no particular resistance was noted , breath sounds<symptom> were reduced and right hemi-thorax had reduced expansion as well. The patient was dehydrated and no central or peripheral neurological deficits were observed. Chest X-ray was performed and showed the presence of free air beneath the diaphragm. A complete abdominal CT scan was then done and documented the presence of pneumoperitoneum and multiple cystic like structures containing air in the right peri-splenic and para-renal regions. Laparotomy was then done for suspected perforation of the gut. The small gut was entangled with adhesions and presence of cystic structures with bubbles of air along the wall of the gut. The affected part of the small gut was then resected. The histology result confirms the presence of cystic pneumatosis of the small gut without any sign of intestinal wall perforation. Cystic pneumatosis , Pneumoperitoneum , Radiological investigations , Surgical approach.