  The isolated hypothyroxinemia of pregnancy ( IHP) has gained specific attention in the specialized literature during the recent years as the possible factor impeding the intellectual development of fetus and increasing the risk of complications related with pregnancy , delivery and perinatal period. Aim of the study was to define the importance of isolated hypothyroxinemia in the development of obstetric and somatic pathologies in outpatient population of pregnant females. The study of prospective design was performed at the base of `` David Gagua Clinic '' Ltd.. Based on hospital referral we selected the pregnant patients who were diagnosed for isolated hypothyroxinemia in the 1st trimester of pregnancy by clinical-laboratory studies. 104 pregnant females with isolated hypothyroxinemia were included in the main group , and 58 pregrant females of reproductive age who were not identified to have thyroid pathology by screening studies were included in the control group ,. The questionnaire used in the study process included the retrospective medical history data , demographic findings , information about premorbid background , genetic burden of somatic pathology , social-economical factors ( including education level , living conditions , economic income , family environment etc.) and concomitant somatic pathology. In addition , it included the clinical and para-clinical study data and pregnancy follow-up findings. The test studies for thyroid status were performed every trimester and after one month postpartum. The software packages Microsoft Excel ( 2010) and SPSS/v .12 was used for statistical treatment of data. The digital data is presented by M ± STD , where M is the arithmetic mean and STD is the standard deviation of arithmetic mean. To define the confidence interval for the indices and their relation , we calculated 2 and p , whose critical value was defined to be 0.05. Based on analysis of the acquired data , we found out that pregnant females with isolated hypothyroxinemia were more statistically demonstrating asthenia<symptom> , dry skin , increased hair loss and fragile nails , and from somatic disorders- pregnancy-associated vomiting<symptom> and anemia<symptom> From concomitant diseases , allergic disorders ( 18.2 %) , primary dysmenorrhea ( 27.8 %) , spontaneous<disease> abortions<disease> ( 25 %) were taking the highest incidence rate and other obstetric complications ( premature delivery , late delivery) were higher in the main group , though statistically significant difference was not demonstrated. It must be noted that isolated hypothyroxinemia in the studied cohort was mostly found in 1st trimester of pregnancy , whereas according to the literature data , the latter is demonstrated more frequently in the second or third trimester. The above mentioned makes us consider that the iodine deficit in the cohort of pregnant females studied by us was probably present before pregnancy as well and maybe with even higher extent. Thus , the isolated hypothyroxinemia developed in the very first trimester of pregnancy still has its negative impact on the pregnancy course and outcome , despite of applied treatment. According to performed studies and their results , for the prevention of obstetric and perinatal complications , its important to administer iodine preparations together with folic acid at pregravid stage in addition to complete elimination of diet abnormalities , plan the pregnancy in stable normothyroxinemia conditions and at positive energetic balance<symptom>. In addition , its desirable to perform the repeated thyroid status evaluation in the first trimester of pregnancy and timely administration of adequate therapeutic measures in case of finding any pathology.