  The circulating pattern of immunoreactive relaxin and progestagens based on monthly and gestational stage ( early , mid , late) profiles were determined during pregnancies that resulted in live calves ( LIVE , n = 30) , stillbirths<symptom> ( STILLB , n = 3) , abortions<disease> ( ABORT , n = 5) and presumptive false pregnancies ( FALSE , n = 8) , and during the follicular ( n = 34) and luteal phase ( n = 58). Monthly LIVE relaxin concentrations steadily increased during gestation , but values did not significantly exceed those of the luteal phase until 9 months prior to parturition , peaking during the final month at 2356 ng/ml. Relaxin surged ( P < 0.05) during the final week of gestation ( 36,397 ng/ml) , undergoing a 3 and 9-fold increase compared with concentrations in the preceding two weeks , respectively. Monthly relaxin production did not differ among each reproductive state with the exception of months-13-16 where concentrations were higher ( P < 0.001) for STILLB than LIVE. Relaxin concentration was reduced ( P < 0.0001) by 849 % in placental versus maternal serum collected within 1 day of labor. Mid- and late-pregnancy progestagen concentrations were lower for FALSE ( P < 0.001) compared with STILLB and LIVE. Late pregnancy progestagen concentrations were reduced for FALSE ( P < 0.05) and ABORT ( P < 0.02) compared with LIVE and STILLB. Monthly progestagen production in ABORT tended to be lower than LIVE across a range of gestational months ( Months 2 , 7 , 8 , 11) but this difference only became significant during months 14 and 15. Results indicate that relaxin is primarily produced by the CL during pregnancy , and that concentrations could not be used to differentiate from non-pregnant females until the final 6 months of gestation. In addition , as would be expected from a primarily CL product , relaxin can not be used to detect abnormal pregnancies. Conversely , progestagens , which are produced by both the placenta and CL can be used to differentiate FALSE from normal pregnancy and may be useful indicators of fetal health in the killer whale.