  Background and purpose In animal studies , enhanced sensitivity to painful stimuli succeeding chronic stress has been reported , while acute stress is reported to induce analgesia. Human studies on the effect of mental stress on pain are more equivocal. A disturbed stress-response resulting in an increased sensitivity to painful stimuli has also been discussed as a potential mechanism for e.g. , the fibromyalgia syndrome<disease>. Endogenous analgesia may be studied in humans by measuring the analgesic effect of heterotopic noxious conditioning stimulation. In neurophysiological animal studies this phenomenon was originally denoted `` diffuse noxious inhibitory controls '' ( DNIC) , but for human studies it has been suggested to use the term conditioned pain modulation ( CPM). The clinical relevance of aberrances in CPM is not clear. Inhibitory CPM is reported as being reduced in several medically unexplained syndromes<disease> with musculoskeletal pain aggravated by mental stress. However , whether the reported reduced CPM effects are causally related to clinical pain is unknown. In the present study the effect of a mental stressor on CPM is studied. Methods With tourniquet-induced pain as the conditioning stimulus we estimated the CPM effect in twenty healthy subjects. Heat pain threshold ( HPT) , supra-threshold heat pain level ( SHPL) and pressure pain<symptom> threshold ( PPT) were used as test stimuli. Measurements were performed at baseline , after a stressful task and after a non-stressful task presented in a blinded cross-over design. We used repeated-measures ANOVAs in the analysis with simple contrasts for post hoc analysis. Results With a ANOVA repeated measures model we found a significant task effect ( F = 18.5 , p ≤ 0.001) , indicating that CPM was successfully induced. In our ANOVA model , we found a significant effect of stress in the contrast analysis ( F = 5.2 , p = 0.037) , indicating that CPM was affected by the stressful task. The effects on PPT could not be analyzed due to a significant carry-over effect ( for PPT only). Conclusions In the present blinded crossover study , we found a significant small to medium inhibitory effect of mental stress upon the CPM of thermal pain. Implications Our results suggest that previously reported reduced inhibitory CPM in several medically unexplained syndromes<disease> with musculoskeletal pain aggravated by mental stress possibly can be related to confounding or clinically relevant stress level differences. However , the result might be modality-specific. Further studies in patients are obviously needed , and the impact of mental stress on CPM should be investigated also with other stressors.