  Background/Aims Pigeon breeder 's lung ( PBL) results from Th1/Th2 cell imbalance. B cells inhibit the immune activity of Th1 , and EBF3 is a key B cell factor. This study explored the relationship between EBF3 and Th1/Th2 imbalance in chronic PBL cases complicated with pulmonary<disease> fibrosis<disease> ( PF). Methods Twenty Uygur PBL+PF patients , 20 pigeon breeders without PBL or PF , and 20 healthy individuals without pigeon breeding history constituted the patient I , negative control , and normal control groups , respectively. Peripheral blood specimens and case backgrounds were collected between June 2016 and March 2017. EBF3 gene methylation was analyzed by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry. To compare different mechanisms of PF progression in PBL , samples from 20 Uygur PBL patients without PF ( at acute and sub-acute stages) were collected between October 2017 and February 2018 , constituting the patient II group. EBF3 mRNA expression was evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. IFN-γ , IL-4 and IL-10 expression and Th1/Th2 imbalance in PBL were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and flow cytometry. Results CpG-2 and general methylation rates in the patient I group were lower than those in the control groups ( P˂0 .017). The level of EBF3 mRNA expression in the patient I group was significantly higher than that in any other group. Compared with the control groups , the patient I group showed a significantly higher level of IL-4 , whereas the patient II group showed a significantly lower level. IL-10 was also expressed more highly in the patient I group than in any other group ( P < 0.01). Flow cytometry showed INF-γ dominance ( Th1 cytokine) in PBL at the acute/sub-acute stage and IL-4 dominance ( Th2 cytokine) at the chronic stage after PF occurred. The general methylation rate was negatively correlated with the mRNA level , with the latter being positively correlated with the IL-10 level and number of pigeons bred in the past 3 months. IL-4 expression was negatively correlated with INF-γ but positively correlated with PF area and duration of pigeon breeding history. Conclusions After PF occurs in chronic PBL , the inflammation<symptom> type changes from Th1 dominance to Th2 dominance. During PBL development , IL-10 increases before IL-4 does , which may be associated with EBF3 hypomethylation and the involvement of B lymphocytes.