  Background Transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 ( TRPA1) is a non-selective cation channel permeable to calcium that is expressed on pain-mediating primary afferent nerve fibers. Here we review recent experimental evidence supporting the hypothesis that activation of the TRPA1 channel by reactive compounds generated in diabetes mellitus , such as 4-hydroxynonenal and methylglyoxal , exerts an important role in the pathophysiology of peripheral diabetic neuropathy ( PDN). The hypothesis includes development of the early diabetic pain hypersensitivity<disease> and the later loss of cutaneous nerve endings of pain fibers and their dysfunction , which are hallmarks of peripheral diabetic neuropathy ( PDN). Methods The evidence for a role of the TRPA1 channel in PDN consists of in vitro patch clamp and calcium imaging data and assessments of pain behavior<symptom> , axon reflex measurements , and immunohistochemical analyses of cutaneous innervation in an experimental animal model of diabetes. The experiments were combined with blocking the TRPA1 channel with selective antagonists Chembridge-5861528 or A-967079. Results In vitro studies indicate that under physiological concentration of Ca2 + , methylglyoxal and 4-hydroxynonenal produce sustained activation of the TRPA1 channel and sustained inflow of calcium. In vivo studies indicate that diabetic pain hypersensitivity<disease> is maintained by the TRPA1 channel as indicated by the antihypersensitivity effect induced by acute blocking of the TRPA1 channel. Moreover , TRPA1 channel is involved in the development of diabetic hypersensitivity<disease> as indicated by prevention of the development of pain hypersensitivity<disease> in diabetic animals treated daily with Chembridge-5861528. The diabetes-induced loss of substance P-like cutaneous innervation and that of the TRPA1 channel-mediated cutaneous axon reflex function during the later phase of diabetes were also prevented or delayed by prolonged blocking of the TRPA1 channel. No motor impairment or other obvious side-effects were observed following block of the TRPA1 channel. Conclusions Together the in vitro and in vivo results indicate that reactive compounds generated in diabetes exert , through action on the TRPA1 channel , an important role in the pathophysiology of PDN. Sustained activation of the TRPA1 channel is a plausible mechanism that contributes to the early diabetic pain hypersensitivity<disease> and the later loss of cutaneous pain fiber endings and their dysfunction with prolonged diabetes. Implications Blocking the TRPA1 channel with a selective antagonist provides a promising disease-modifying treatment for PDN , with only minor , if any , side-effects.