  Background and aims The development of postoperative chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> ( POCP) after surgery is a major problem with a considerable socioeconomic impact. It is defined as pain lasting more than the usual healing , often more than 2-6 months. Recent systematic reviews and meta-analyses demonstrate that the N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor antagonist ketamine given peri- and intraoperatively can reduce immediate postoperative pain , especially if severe postoperative pain is expected and regional anaesthesia techniques are impossible. However , the results concerning the role of ketamine in preventing chronic postoperative pain are conflicting. The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review and a pooled analysis to determine if peri- and intraoperative ketamine can reduce the incidence of chronic postoperative pain. Methods Electronic searches of PubMed , EMBASE and Cochrane including data until September 2013 were conducted. Subsequently , the titles and abstracts were read , and reference lists of reviews and retrieved studies were reviewed for additional studies. Where necessary , authors were contacted to obtain raw data for statistical analysis. Papers reporting on ketamine used in the intra- and postoperative setting with pain measured at least 4 weeks after surgery were identified. For meta-analysis of pain after 1 , 3 , 6 and 12 months , the results were summarised in a forest<disease> plot , indicating the number of patients with and without pain in the ketamine and the control groups. The cut-off value used for the VAS/NRS scales was 3 ( range 0-10) , which is a generally well-accepted value with clinical impact in view of quality of life. Results Our analysis identified ten papers for the comprehensive meta-analysis , including a total of 784 patients. Three papers , which included a total of 303 patients , reported a positive outcome concerning persistent postsurgical pain. In the analysis , only one of nine pooled estimates of postoperative pain at rest or in motion after 1 , 3 , 6 or 12 months , defined as a value ≥ 3 on a visual analogue scale of 0-10 , indicated a marginally significant pain reduction. Conclusions Based on the currently available data , there is currently not sufficient evidence to support a reduction in chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> due to perioperative administration of ketamine. Only the analysis of postoperative pain at rest after 1 month resulted in a marginally significant reduction of chronic postoperative pain using ketamine in the perioperative setting. Implications It can be hypothesised , that regional anaesthesia in addition to the administration of perioperative ketamine might have a preventive effect on the development of persistent postsurgical pain. An additional high-quality pain relief intra- and postoperatively as well after discharge could be more effective than any particular analgesic method per se. It is an assumption that a low dose infusion ketamine has to be administered for more than 72 h to reduce the risk of chronic postoperative pain.