  Background Previously we found that pre-procedural nervousness and tension ( translated into English as `` anxiety<symptom> '') , assessed on a non-validated five-point scale , correlated with pain intensity of the various stages of bone<disease> marrow aspiration and biopsy ( BMAB). The fewer the previous BMAB procedures the stronger the pain from a repeated procedure. The primary purpose of the present observational study is to evaluate the state of anxiety<symptom> just before BMAB and to find out whether it affects the pain experiences during the various stages of the BMAB procedure. We also examined whether first-timers differ from patients with previous BMAB experience in the degree of anxiety<symptom> and intensity of BMAB procedural pain. Methods A total of 166 adult outpatients undergoing the BMAB from the Helsinki University Hospital were enrolled , 48 of them being first-timers. The level of anxiety<symptom> was measured with State-Trait Anxiety<symptom> Inventory ( STAI) and the pain experiences associated with the various stages of the procedure were evaluated on the NRS-scale ( Numeral Rating Scale 0-10) and using the Finnish pain vocabulary. BMAB was planned to be performed under lidocaine infiltration anaesthesia but , on request , patients were allowed to receive premedication with diazepam orally or alfentanil i.m. If , in spite of supplemental local anaesthetic the patient still felt pain from the sampling needle tip , i.m. alfentanil was administered. Results There was a clear association between anxiety<symptom> and pain during all stages of the procedure , except during biopsy. The NRS scores varied from 0 to 10 in all the various stages of BMAB. The first-timers did not differ from the more experienced patients with regard to pain experiences; only the pain felt during the local anaesthetic infiltration was milder ( P = 0.007) in first-timers than in the others. Procedural pain in those who were given analgesic or sedative premedication was similar ( P < 0.05) to that in the non-premedicated patients. The words characterizing the pain of the various stages belonged to a major extent ( 76-90 %) to the sensory class of words. Conclusion Pre-procedural anxiety<symptom> had a major impact on the pain ratings. The first-timers and patients with previous experience of BMAB had a similar degree of pre-procedural anxiety<symptom> , as well as of the intensity of procedural pain , except that infiltration of local anaesthetic was less painful in the first-timers. Implications Identification of anxious ( fearful) patients prior to BMAB , and premedicating them individually may improve satisfaction in both patient and caregiver.