  This was a prospective simulator study with 16 healthy male subjects. To compare the relative efficacy of immobilization systems in limiting involuntary<symptom> movements<symptom> of the cervical spine using a dynamic simulation model. Relatively few studies have tested the efficacy of immobilization methods for limiting involuntary cervical movement , and only one of these studies used a dynamic simulation system to do so. Immobilization configurations tested were cot alone , cot with cervical collar , long spine board ( LSB) with cervical collar and head blocks , and vacuum mattress ( VM) with cervical collar. A motion platform reproduced shocks<disease> and vibrations from ambulance and helicopter field rides , as well as more severe<symptom> shocks<disease> and vibrations that might be encountered on rougher terrain and in inclement weather ( designated as an `` augmented '' ride). Motion capture technology quantitated involuntary cervical rotation , flexion/extension , and lateral bend. The mean and 95 % CI of the mean was calculated for the root mean square ( RMS) of angular changes from the starting position and for the maximum range of motion ( ROMMAX). All configurations tested decreased cervical rotation and flexion/extension relative to the cot alone. However , the LSB and VM were significantly more effective in decreasing cervical rotation than the cervical collar , and the LSB decreased rotation more than the VM in augmented rides. The LSB and VM , but not the cervical collar , significantly limited cervical lateral bend relative to the cot alone. Under the study conditions , the LSB and the VM were more effective in limiting cervical movement than the cervical collar. Under some conditions , the LSB decreased repetitive and acute<symptom> movements<symptom> more than the VM. Further studies using simulation and other approaches will be essential for determining the safest , most effective configuration should providers choose to immobilize patients with suspected spinal injuries. 3.