  Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD) is highly prevalent and causes an enormous burden to human health and health-care systems all over the world. A great proportion of this burden results from increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. Atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( AF) is the most common chronic heart arrhythmia globally and it increases the risk of embolic stroke and heart<symptom> failure<symptom>. Recent studies have explored the association between NAFLD and AF with somewhat conflicting results. However , ultrasound-verified prospective studies concur that NAFLD is associated with the incidence of AF. According to epidemiological evidence , the greater the prevalence of NALFD in a population , the stronger the association with AF incidence and prevalence. Specifically , diabetic individuals with NAFLD are at the greatest risk of AF. Additionally , the risk of AF may concentrate most in individuals with advanced NAFLD , particularly those with liver fibrosis<disease>. The possible mechanistic factors between NAFLD and AF , particularly obesity and systemic inflammation<symptom> , are diverse and form a complex interplaying network. However , further studies are needed to elucidate whether NAFLD has a causative role in the development of AF. The purpose of this article is to review and discuss the epidemiologic evidence and possible mechanistic links between these two conditions. KEY MESSAGES Although epidemiologic studies have provided conflicting results on the association of NAFLD and AF , prospective studies with ultrasound-verified NAFLD concur that NAFLD is associated with about 2-fold greater incidence of AF among general population and about 6-fold greater incidence among subjects with type 2 diabetes. The risk of AF among individuals with NAFLD is increased by other cardiovascular risk factors , especially type 2 diabetes and advanced age. The possible mechanistic links between NALFD and AF are diverse , with obesity and systemic inflammation<symptom> having a significant role , but further studies are needed until NAFLD can be established as a causal factor in the incidence of AF.