  The use of nine items of personal protective equipment ( PPE) during pesticide spray preparation and spraying was studied among farmers of Moghan Plain region , Iran , along with factors affecting PPE use behavior. Face-to-face interviews with the farmers based on a structured questionnaire were conducted. Low levels of PPE use were reported by almost half of the farmers ( 48.3 %) , while 30.5 % showed moderate levels and 21.2 % showed high levels of PPE use. Long-sleeved shirt was the most common item used by farmers , followed by simple face mask , boots , gloves , hat , wipes for covering face and mouth<symptom> , trousers , and coveralls. Farmers who were satisfied by farming , farmers with off-farm income , and married farmers used PPE items more frequently. PPE use behavior also showed a positive association with the number of literate members of the household , farmers ' knowledge of pesticide hazards , and use of information sources. Distance of village to agricultural offices and extension service centers showed a negative association with PPE use. Structure equation modeling ( SEM) revealed that PPE use was increased with i) negative attitudes of farmers towards pesticides , ii) high levels of knowledge about pesticide hazards , iii) frequent contact with information sources , and iv) past poisoning<disease> experience during pesticide handling. Based on the model , the most effective variable on PPE use behavior was farmers ' attitudes towards pesticides followed by knowledge of pesticide hazards , poisoning<disease> experience , and information sources. These four variables explained 85 % of the variance in farmers ' behavior in PPE use. The study brings new information on the mediating role of farmers ' attitudes towards pesticides , knowledge of pesticide hazards , poisoning<disease> experience , and information sources in the use of PPE. Education of farmers on the hazards of pesticides is crucial for changing wrong behaviors in PPE use. Moreover , close contacts of the extension experts with pesticides retailers could increase farmers ' safety in pesticide use.