  Tildrakizumab , an interleukin ( IL) -23 inhibitor , is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Although tildrakizumab is not metabolized by , and does not alter , cytochrome P450 ( CYP) expression in vitro , clinically-significant pharmacokinetic effects through changes in systemic inflammation<symptom> , which alters CYP metabolism , have been well documented. At the time of study conduct , the effect of modulation of inflammation/cytokines , including IL-23 inhibition with tildrakizumab , on CYP metabolism , and therefore the potential for disease-drug interactions , in psoriasis patients was unknown. We therefore assessed whether tildrakizumab alters CYP metabolism in subjects with moderate to severe psoriasis. This was an open-label , fixed-sequence , two-period trial. In Period 1 ( Day 1) , subjects received an oral CYP probe cocktail of up to five drugs ( midazolam 2 mg ( 3A4) , caffeine 200 mg ( 1A2) , warfarin 10 mg ( 2C9) , omeprazole 40 mg ( 2C19) and dextromethorphan 30 mg ( 2D6)) , followed by a 7-day washout. In Period 2 , subjects received tildrakizumab 200 mg subcutaneously on Days 1 and 29 and a second CYP probe cocktail on Day 57. Substrate or metabolite pharmacokinetics , safety , and changes in Psoriasis Severity Area Index ( PASI) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ( hs-CRP) , were assessed. Twenty subjects ( 13 men , 7 women) were enrolled. Tildrakizumab had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of any of the probe substrates tested. On Day 57 of Period 2 , the median percent decrease from baseline in PASI score following tildrakizumab was ~ 93 %. There were no clinically relevant changes in IL-6 or hs-CRP. Treatment with tildrakizumab was generally well tolerated. In subjects with moderate to severe psoriasis , tildrakizumab 200 mg did not have a discernible effect on CYP metabolism. The potential for clinically significant drug-drug interactions ( DDIs) with tildrakizumab in patients with psoriasis is low. The difference in the occurrence of DDIs seen with anti-inflammatory agents in rheumatoid arthritis<disease> patients compared with psoriasis patients may be due to the much greater extent of systemic inflammation<symptom> in rheumatoid arthritis<disease> as compared to psoriasis.