  The latex and the aerial parts of Euphorbia characias L. ( Euphorbiaceae) have been used as medicinal plant to treat wounds<disease> and warts<disease> in traditional medicine. The effect of the plant extract was tested in vivo and in vitro with experimental models to find scientific evidence for traditional use in wound<disease> healing. Potentially active wound-healer compounds were isolated from the active fraction using fractionation procedures under the guidance of biological assay and the possible role of the compounds in the wound<disease> healing process was also determined. N-hexane , ethyl acetate , and methanol extracts were successively prepared from the aerial parts of E. characias subsp. wulfenii. The extracts were tested with linear incision , circular excision wound<disease> models and the hydroxyproline assay method to assess the wound-healing activity. The inhibition of the increase in capillary permeability induced by acetic acid , an acute<symptom> inflammation<symptom> model , was used to assay the anti-inflammatory activity. Different chromatographic separation techniques on sephadex and silica gel columns , and bioassay guided assay techniques have been used to isolate the active compounds of the plant. Moreover , hyaluronidase , collagenase and elastase enzymes inhibitory effect of active principle were investigated in vitro to find out the mechanism of action. The methanol ( MeOH-ex) extract of the aerial parts of E. characias subsp. wulfenii showed significant wound<disease> healing activity ( linear incision wound<disease> model: 43.04 %; circular excision wound<disease> model 65.24 %) and anti-inflammatory activity ( 34.74 %). The methanol extract was separated into its fractions by column chromatography for isolation of efficient compounds. Biological activity of the fractions were assessed and further isolation and purification processes have been carried out in the active fraction. Isolation studies were carried out from the MeOH-ex fraction to obtain active constituents and their structures were elucidated to be quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside ( quercitrin) , quercetin-3-O-galactoside ( hyperoside) , and quercetin-3-O-arabinoside ( guaijaverin). Further in vitro and in vivo assays showed that quercetin derivatives were responsible for the wound-healing activity of the plant , and also found to be significant anti-elastase and anti-collagenase activities. The amounts of three compounds , isolated from active fraction , were determined by using high performance liquid chromatography. Calibration equation was calculated with dilutions , prepared from pure substances , and assay was performed in total extract , prepared from E. characias subsp. wulfenii. It was detected that the plant had 1.22 % quercitrin , 0.35 % hyperoside , and 0.11 % guaijaverin. The validation of the analytical method was performed by linearity , precision , limit of detection , and limit of quantification parameters. Present study supported the traditional use of the aerial parts E. characias subsp. wulfenii as wound<disease> healer and quercetin derivatives were isolated as active components from the active fraction by using bioassay-guided fractionation technique.