  Anti-N-methyl-D-asparate receptor encephalitis<disease> is considered an immune-mediated form of encephalitis<disease> with paraneoplastic and nonparaneoplastic forms. Delay in recognition is common and patients typically present to the ICU without a diagnosis or with complications following a delayed diagnosis. The aim of this review is to provide a focused overview for the ICU clinician regarding presentation , diagnosis , and critical care management. PubMed database search with manual review of articles involving anti-N-methyl-D-asparate receptor encephalitis<disease>. Anti-N-methyl-D-asparate receptor encephalitis<disease> is increasingly encountered in the ICU. The cascade of events initiating anti-N-methyl-D-asparate receptor antibody formation may involve an infectious trigger particularly in the setting of teratoma. Following a prodrome , most patients develop psychiatric symptoms followed by movement disorder. Classical , psychiatric , and catatonic phenotypes may be distinguished based on the presence and severity of symptoms. Early immunotherapy and low initial cerebrospinal fluid inflammation<symptom> are independent predictors of positive outcomes in ICU patients. Concomitant organ<symptom> failure<symptom> , status epilepticus , and the identification of a tumor did not influence outcome in critically ill patients. Supportive care in the ICU includes management of various manifestations of dyskinesia , status epilepticus , autonomic disorders , and the need for general sedation. Common treatment strategies and limitations are discussed including the emerging role of bortezomib. Intensivists should be familiar with the presentation and management of anti-N-methyl-D-asparate receptor encephalitis<disease>. Early diagnosis and immediate implementation of steroids , immunoglobulins , and/or plasmapheresis and immune therapy are associated with a good neurologic outcome although response may be delayed. The selection and timing of second-line immune therapy requires further study.