  The whole plant , roots and stems of Ephedra gerardiana ( Family Ephedraceae) have long been used as a folk remedy to treat rheumatism and painful joints in Northern Areas of Pakistan. The purpose of study was to observe the preventive efficacy of Ephedra gerardiana ( EG) aerial parts in treating rheumatoid arthritis<disease> using Freund 's complete adjuvant ( FCA) induced arthritis<disease> in rat model and to determine its possible mechanism of action. Arthritis<disease> was induced in Sprague Dawley rats by immunization with 0.1 ml FCA in left footpad. EG aqueous ethanolic extract ( 30:70) and its aqueous , n-butanol and ethyl acetate fractions at 200 mg/kg were orally administered from day 0 , 30 min prior to adjuvant injection and sustained for 28 days. Paw volume/diameter , arthritic score , body<symptom> weight , and hematological ( WBC , RBC , ESR , Hb and Platelet count) and biochemical ( AST , ALT , ALP , urea , creatinine , CRP and RF) parameters were observed. The mRNA expression levels of COX-2 , IL-1β , IL-6 , NF-kB , TNF-α , IL-4 and IL-10 were measured by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR) while , PGE2 and TNF-α levels in serum samples were measured by Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA). Moreover , radiographs of hind paws and histological changes in ankle joint were analyzed in adjuvant injected rats. In addition , anti-oxidant activity of plant extract and fractions was also evaluated using DPPH and reducing power assays. Also , preliminary phytochemistry and total phenolic and flavonoid contents were investigated in most active fraction ( aqueous fraction). EG extract and fractions ( notably aqueous fraction) significantly suppressed paw swelling and arthritic score , prevented cachexia and remarkably ameliorated hematological and biochemical changes. Furthermore , the overproduction of PGE2 , COX-2 , IL-1β , IL-6 , NF-kB and TNF-α were remarkably attenuated in all EG treated rats , however , IL-4 and 10 were markedly increased. The radiographic and histopathologic improvement in joint architecture was also observed in EG treated rats. Piroxicam , used as reference drug , also significantly suppressed arthritis<disease>. Additionally , plant exhibited notable anti-oxidant activity and phytochemical analysis revealed the presence of alkaloids , flavonoids , phenols , tannins , saponins and glycosides. These results indicate that EG extract and fractions significantly attenuated adjuvant arthritis<disease> in rats by decreasing the levels of aforementioned pro-inflammatory and increasing the levels of anti-inflammatory mediators. This suggests that Ephedra gerardiana aerial parts might be used as a therapeutic agent for treating human