  The purpose of this study was to identify preventable reasons for readmission and to delineate risk factors for readmission in the perioperative period for patients with chronic ulcerative colitis<disease> undergoing ileal pouch-anal anastomosis ( IPAA). Patients with a diagnosis of chronic ulcerative colitis<disease> undergoing either total proctocolectomy with IPAA or proctectomy with IPAA were identified in the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database from 2012-2015. Unplanned 30-d readmissions were reviewed and categorized by reason for readmission. The unplanned readmission rate within 30 d was calculated by the person-days method. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard regression models determined independent risk factors for overall 30-d unplanned readmissions and readmissions sorted by primary readmission diagnosis. Three thousand four hundred one patients had an IPAA performed during the study period. The overall unplanned readmission rate was 32.9 % per 30 person-days. Leading diagnoses for unplanned readmission included infectious complications , dehydration<symptom> , and venous thromboembolism ( VTE). Multivariable analysis found Hispanic white and black/African American race/ethnicity ( both versus non-Hispanic white) to be independently associated with unplanned 30-d readmission. Obesity , operative time 330 + min ( versus < 189 min) , and Hispanic white race/ethnicity ( versus non-Hispanic white) were associated with readmission for infectious complications. Age 57 + y ( versus age 18-32 y) and hypertension requiring medication were associated with readmission for dehydration<symptom> Total proctocolectomy with IPAA ( versus proctectomy with IPAA) was associated with readmission for VTE. One-third of patients undergoing IPAA experience an unplanned 30-d readmission. Infectious complications and dehydration<symptom> account for most of the unplanned readmissions. Outpatient pathways to prevent dehydration<symptom> and the use of extended VTE prophylaxis after two-stage IPAA may help reduce the rates of readmission following IPAA.