  Acute ischaemic stroke represents the most common cause of new sudden neurological deficit , but other diseases mimicking stroke happen in about one-third of the cases. Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) is the best technique to identify those ` stroke mimics '. In this article , we propose a diagnostic approach of those stroke mimics on MRI according to an algorithm based on diffusion-weighted imaging ( DWI) , which can be abnormal or normal , followed by the results of other common additional MRI sequences , such as T2 with gradient recalled echo weighted imaging ( T2-GRE) and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery ( FLAIR). Analysis of the signal intensity of the parenchyma , the intracranial arteries and , overall , of the veins , is crucial on T2-GRE , while anatomic distribution of the parenchymal lesions<symptom> is essential on FLAIR. Among stroke mimics with abnormal DWI , T2-GRE demonstrates obvious abnormalities in case of intracerebral haemorrhage or cerebral amyloid angiopathy , but this sequence also allows to propose alternative diagnoses when DWI is negative , such as in migraine aura or headaches<symptom> with associated neurological deficits and lymphocytosis ( HaNDL) , in which cortical venous prominence is observed at the acute phase on T2-GRE. FLAIR is also of major interest when DWI is positive by better showing evocative distribution of cerebral lesions<symptom> in case of seizure<symptom> ( involving the hippocampus , pulvinar and cortex) , hypoglycaemia ( bilateral lesions<symptom> in the posterior limb of the internal capsules , corona radiata , striata or splenium of the corpus callosum) or in posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome<disease> ( PRES). Other real stroke mimics such as mitochondrial myopathy , encephalopathy , lactic acidosis , stroke-like episodes ( MELAS) , Susac 's syndrome<disease> , brain tumour , demyelinating diseases and herpes<disease> simplex<disease> encephalitis<disease> are also included in our detailed and practical algorithm. • About 30 % of sudden neurological deficits are due to non-ischaemic causes. • MRI is the best technique to identify stroke mimics. • Our practical illustrated algorithm based on DWI helps to recognise stroke mimics.