  Open reduction and internal fixation ( ORIF) using an extended lateral approach combined with plate osteosynthesis represents the current gold standard in calcaneal fracture treatment , but it is associated with a wound<disease> complication rate of up to 30 %. Literature suggests that micro-circulation is one of the key factors for sufficient wound<disease> healing. The aim of this study was to evaluate soft tissue micro-circulation of the hindfoot in healthy volunteers to determine influencing factors and to identify hypoxic or hypoperfused areas in non-trauma situations , with special attention to surgical approaches. Micro-circulation of the lateral hindfoot of 125 participants was non-invasively measured at 2 and 8 mm depths , utilizing a Micro-Lightguide O2C ® spectrophotometer. Blood flow ( BF ( AU)) and oxygen saturation ( SO2 ( %)) of ten measurement points ( MPs) were documented. Demographic factors ( age , gender , body mass index ( BMI) , systolic/diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , smoking , and pack-years) and regional differences with special regard to surgical approaches ( extended lateral approach , Palmer approach , Ollier approach , and a self-modified extended lateral approach) were analyzed. The SO2 assessments at 2- and 8-mm depths revealed higher values in males ( p = 0.043; p = 0.025). There was a correlation between higher age and lower 2 mm BF ( p = 0.044). Smoking history and number of pack-years did not predict micro-circulation. BF at the 2 mm depth was highest in the regions of Palmer and Ollier approach ( p < 0.001). The MP at the distal calcaneal tuberosity showed significantly higher values regarding all parameters ( SO2 ( 2 mm) , p < 0.001; SO2 ( 8 mm) , p = 0.001; BF ( 2 mm) , p < 0.001; BF ( 8 mm) , p < 0.001) , compared to the surrounding area. In non-trauma situations , young males were associated with better micro-circulatory supply of the lateral hindfoot. There was a trend for higher blood flow in regions of the Palmer and Ollier approach. The distal calcaneal tuberosity was clearly superior in all micro-circulatory parameters when compared to the surrounding area.