  OBJECT Techniques for combined extradural and intradural decompression with expansile duraplasty for Chiari malformation type I ( CM-I) have been well described , with various allogenic and autologous materials used for duraplasty. However , the approach and surgical technique used for duraplasty in our treatment of CM-I and developed by the senior author in the 1990s has not been described. METHODS A prospective database was initiated in March 2003 to denote the use of cervical fascia for duraplasty and incorporate an ongoing detailed record of complications during the surgical treatment of children and adults with CM-I with and without syringomyelia. A total of 389 surgeries for CM-I were performed on 379 patients from March 2003 to June 2016. A total of 123 posterior procedures were performed on 123 patients in which both a posterior fossa extradural and intradural decompression with duraplasty ( extra-intradural) was performed. In this paper the authors describe the surgical technique for harvesting and using cervical fascia for duraplasty in the surgical treatment of CM-I and analyze and discuss complications from a prospective database spanning 2003-2016. RESULTS The authors found that cervical fascia can be harvested in patients of all ages ( 2-61 years old) without difficulty , and it provides a good substitute for dura in creating an expansile duraplasty in patients with CM-I. Cervical fascia is an elastic-like material with a consistency that allows for a strong watertight closure. Harvesting the cervical fascia graft does not require any further extension of the incision superiorly or inferiorly to obtain the graft. Complications were uncommon in this study of 123 children and adults. The risk of any type of complication ( aseptic meningitis<disease> , CSF leak , pseudomeningocele , infection , development of hydrocephalus<symptom> , and need for ventriculoperitoneal shunt) for the 78 patients in the pediatric age group was 0 %. The risk of complication in the adult group was 6.7 % ( 1 patient with aseptic meningitis<disease> and 2 patients with CSF leak). CONCLUSIONS Autologous cervical fascia is easy to obtain in patients of all ages and provides an effective material for duraplasty in the treatment of CM-I. Complications from the combination of both an extradural and intradural decompression with autologous cervical fascia duraplasty are uncommon.