  Our previous study has found that a long duration of untreated prodromal symptoms ( DUPrS) does not increase the conversion risk to psychosis in individuals with attenuated psychosis syndrome<disease> ( APS). However , whether a long DUPrS will lead to other poor outcomes remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to analyse the association between the DUPrS and outcomes ( symptomatic and functional recovery) in APS population. A post hoc analysis was performed in 391 individuals with APS as identified by the structured interview. APS subjects had follow-up interviews every 6 months for 2 years following diagnosis. Poor<symptom> functional outcome was defined as a Global Assessment of Functioning ( GAF) score less than 60 at the time of follow-up. Poor<symptom> symptomatic outcome was defined as at least one of the positive symptoms rated scores of 3 or higher. A post hoc analysis was performed in 391 individuals with APS as identified by the structured interview. APS subjects had follow-up interviews every 6 months for 2 years following diagnosis. Poor<symptom> functional outcome was defined as a Global Assessment of Functioning ( GAF) score less than 60 at the time of follow-up. Poor<symptom> symptomatic outcome was defined as at least one of the positive symptoms rated scores of 3 or higher. Of total 391 individuals , 334 were followed up for 2 years to assess clinical outcome , 82 ( 24.6 %) had shown conversion to psychosis , 79 ( 23.7 %) met the criteria of poor functioning outcome , and 145 ( 43.4 %) met the criteria of poor symptomatic outcome. A significant correlation between GAF scores and DUPrS was observed in the non-converter group , but not in the converters. Individuals with APS who had a longer DUPrS were correlated with poorer functional outcome. However , it was not correlated with poorer symptomatic outcome. While a longer DUPrS was not related to poor symptomatic outcome , it was significantly related to poor functional outcome. Our findings highlight the importance of reducing DUPrS to decrease future functional impairment in populations at risk for psychosis.