  By promoting the recirculation of tissue fluid , the lymphatic system preserves tissue health , aids in the absorption of gastrointestinal lipids , and supports immune surveillance. Failure of the lymphatic system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several infectious and inflammatory<disease> diseases<disease>. Thus , interventions that enhance lymphatic circulation , such as osteopathic lymphatic pump treatment ( LPT) , should aid in the management of these diseases. To determine whether thoracic duct lymph ( TDL) mobilized during LPT would alter the function of macrophages in vitro. The thoracic ducts of 6 mongrel dogs were cannulated , and TDL samples were collected before ( baseline) , during , and 10 minutes after LPT. Thoracic duct lymph flow was measured , and TDL samples were analyzed for protein concentration. To measure the effect of TDL on macrophage activity , RAW 264.7 macrophages were cultured for 1 hour to acclimate. After 1 hour , cell-free TDL collected at baseline , during LPT , and after TDL was added at 5 % total volume per well and co-cultured with or without 500 ng per well of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS) for 24 hours. As a control for the addition of 5 % TDL , macrophages were cultured with phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS) at 5 % total volume per well and co-cultured with or without 500 ng per well of LPS for 24 hours. After culture , cell-free supernatants were assayed for nitrite ( NO2-) , tumor necrosis<symptom> factor α ( TNF-α) and interleukin 10 ( IL-10). Macrophage viability was measured using flow cytometry. Lymphatic pump treatment significantly increased TDL flow and the flux of protein in TDL ( P < .001). After culture , macrophage viability was approximately 90 %. During activation with LPS , baseline TDL , TDL during LPT , and TDL after LPT significantly decreased the production of NO2- , TNF-α , and IL-10 by macrophages ( P < .05). However , no significant differences were found in viability or the production of NO2- , TNF-α , or IL-10 between macrophages cultured with LPS plus TDL taken before , during , and after LPT ( P > .05). The redistribution of protective lymph during LPT may provide scientific rationale for the clinical use of LPT to reduce inflammation<symptom> and manage