 There is much evidence that neural activity in the human brain is modulated by task difficulty , particularly in visual , frontal , and parietal cortices. However , some basic psychophysical tasks in visual perception do not give rise to this expected effect , at least not in the visual cortex. In the current study , we used functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI) to record brain activity while systematically manipulating task difficulty in a motion discrimination task , by varying the angular difference between the motion direction of random dots and a reference direction. We used both a blocked and an event-related design , and presented stimuli in both central and peripheral<symptom> vision<symptom>. The behavioral psychometric function , across angular differences of 3 ° , 9 ° , 15 ° , or 80 ° , spanned the full response range , as expected. The mean blood oxygen level dependent ( BOLD) signals were also correlated within-participants between the blocked and event-related designs , across all brain areas tested. Within the visual cortex , the voxel response patterns correlated more within-conditions ( e.g. , 3 ° and 3 °) than between-conditions ( e.g. , 3 ° and 9 °) , in both designs , further attesting to the reasonable quality of the BOLD data. Nevertheless , the BOLD-o-metric functions ( i.e. , BOLD activity as a function of task difficulty) were flat in the whole-brain and region-of-interest ( ROI) analyses , including in the visual cortex , the parietal cortex , in both designs , and in foveal and peripheral visual fields alike. Indeed , there was little difference between BOLD activity during the 3 ° and 80 ° conditions. Some suggestive evidence of difficulty modulation was revealed only in the superior and inferior frontal gyri for the blocked design. We conclude that , in motion discrimination , there is no systematic BOLD modulation that accompanies the standard psychometric function across different hierarchies of cortical areas , except for the frontal lobe of the brain.