 Postpartum suicidality , a result of extreme distress or depression<symptom> , is a tragedy for the woman , infant , and family. Screening for postpartum depression<symptom> ( PPD) is mandatory in Israel , including a question on suicidal ideation. This study presents and analyzes data regarding rates , trends and characteristics of postpartum women who considered , attempted , or completed suicide , to help direct services aimed at preventing these occurrences. Suicidal ideation data based on PPD screening was drawn from various publications and databases. Suicide attempt data was obtained from the Emergency Department database for 2006-2015 and matched with the National Birth Registry. Cause of death from the national database for those years were similarly linked to births<symptom> to identify postpartum suicides and deaths. Postpartum and non-postpartum suicide attempt rates were computed by year , and by age and ethnic/immigrant group. A multivariate logistic model was used to estimate relative risk for postpartum attempts , controlling for age and ethnic group. Suicidal ideation in recent years has been reported as 1 % or less , with higher rates found in studies of Arab women. Suicide attempt rates for non-postpartum women were 3-5 times that of postpartum women , rising over the years , while remaining relatively stable for postpartum women. Adjusted risk of suicide attempt for non-postpartum women was significantly higher; adjusted odds ratio was 4.08 ( 95 % CI 3.75-4.44). It was also significantly higher for Arabs and immigrants from the Former Soviet Union , compared to Israeli-born Jews/veteran immigrants , and for younger women compared to those aged 35-44. Seven postpartum suicides were recorded during 2006-2015 , a rate of 0.43 per 100,000 births<symptom>. Postpartum suicidality in Israel is low relative to other countries. Although relatively rare and lower than among non-postpartum women , health professionals should be attentive to risk factors , such as past psychiatric disorders , suicide attempts and current emotional distress , particularly among higher-risk populations. The universal screening program for PPD is a valuable opportunity for this , but increased resources should be allotted to implement and utilize it optimally. Prenatal screening should be added as an Israeli Quality Indicator , and postpartum completed suicides should be thoroughly investigated to guide prevention efforts.