 It is widely accepted the key role of endothelium in the onset of many chronic and acute vascular and cardiovascular diseases<disease>. In the last decade , traditional compounds utilized in `` folk medicine '' were considered with increasing interest to discover new bioactive molecules potentially effective in a wide range of diseases<disease> including cardiovascular ones. Since ancient times different parts of the Cucumis sativus L. plant were utilized in Ayurvedic medicine , among these , fruits were traditionally used to alleviate skin problem such as sunburn irritation and inflammation<symptom>. The main purpose of the present research was , in a well-defined in vitro model of endothelial cells , to investigate whether a water/ethanol extract of Cucumis sativus L. ( CSE) fruit can attenuate the damaging effect of pro-inflammatory lipopolysaccharide ( LPS). Cell viability , gene expression of endothelial cell markers , cytokines secretion and in vitro angiogenesis assay were performed on porcine Aortic Endothelial Cells exposed to increasing doses ( 0.02; 02; 2 mg/ml) of CSE in the presence of pro-inflammatory lipopolysaccharide ( LPS 10 μg/ml). CSE reduced LPS-induced cytotoxicity and decreased the cellular detachment , restoring the expression of tight junction ZO-1. The increase of TLR4 expression induced by LPS was counterbalanced by the presence of CSE , while the protective gene Hemeoxygenase ( HO) -1 was increased. Cucumis sativus L. inhibited the early robust secretion of inflammatory IL-8 and GM-CSFs , furthermore inhibition of inflammatory IL-6 and IL-1α occurred late at 7 and 24 h respectively. On the contrary , the secretion of anti-inflammatory IL-10 , together with IL-18 and IFN-γ was increased. Moreover , the in vitro angiogenesis induced by inflammatory LPS was prevented by the presence of Cucunis sativus L. extract , at any doses tested. Our results have clearly demonstrated that Cucumis sativus L. extract has attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory response in endothelial cells.