 There are limited data describing the cost-effectiveness of brief interventions for substance use in resource-poor settings. Using a patient and provider perspective , this study investigates the cost-effectiveness of a brief motivational interviewing ( MI) intervention versus a combined intervention of MI and problem solving therapy ( MI-PST) for reducing substance use among patients presenting to emergency departments , in comparison to a control group. Effectiveness data were extracted from Project STRIVE ( Substance use and Trauma InterVention) conducted in South Africa. Patients were randomised to either receive 1 session of MI ( n = 113) or MI in addition to four sessions of PST ( n = 109) or no intervention ( control ( n = 110)). Costs included the direct health care costs associated with the interventions. Patient costs included out of pocket payments incurred accessing the MI-PST intervention. Outcome measures were patients ' scores on the Alcohol , Smoking and Substance Use Involvement Screening Test ( ASSIST) and the Centre for Epidemiological Studies Depression<symptom> Scale ( CES-D). Cost per patient was low in all three groups; US$ 16 , US$ 33 and US$ 11 , and for MI , MI-PST and control respectively. Outcomes were 0.92 ( MI) , 1.06 ( MI-PST) and 0.88 ( control) for ASSIST scores; and 0.74 ( MI) , 1.27 ( MI-PST) and 0.53 ( control) for CES-D scores. In comparison to the control group , the MI intervention costs an additional US$ 119 per unit reduction in ASSIST score , ( US$ 20 for CES-D); MI-PST in comparison to MI costs US$ 131 or US$ 33 per unit reduction in ASSIST or CES-D scores respectively. The sensitivity analyses showed that increasing the number of patients who screened positive and thus received the intervention could improve the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the interventions. MI or MI-PST interventions delivered by lay counsellors have the potential to be cost-effective strategies for the reduction of substance use disorder and depressive symptoms<symptom> among patients presenting at emergency departments in resource poor settings. Given the high economic , social and health care cost of substance use disorders in South Africa , these results suggest that these interventions should be carefully considered for future implementation.