 One third of women experience intimate partner violence ( IPV) in their lifetime. Orthopaedic health care professionals are in a good position to identify women experiencing escalating physical violence and act to promote their immediate safety , connect them to IPV resources , and reduce the risk of further harm. However , there have been no studies that explore whether experiencing a musculoskeletal injury can trigger or worsen IPV , and there have been no studies on how experiences of IPV affect orthopaedic outcomes. The primary objective of the PRAISE-2 pilot study is to assess the feasibility of conducting a large cohort study to determine the association between IPV and injury-related complications. The secondary clinical objectives are to preliminarily explore how a history of IPV affects orthopaedic outcomes and how patterns of IPV change over time following an orthopaedic injury. We will complete a pilot multicentre prospective cohort study of 250 women with musculoskeletal injuries to determine the feasibility of a multinational prospective cohort study that will determine if prior or ongoing IPV affects orthopaedic outcomes following an injury , and how patterns of IPV change over time. Our primary outcome is feasibility measured using recruitment rate ( success criterion 50 patients/site in 12 months) , adherence to visit windows ( success criterion 75 %) , participant retention<symptom> ( success criterion 85 %) , and data completeness ( success criterion 80 %). Our secondary exploratory clinical outcomes are injury-related complications , return to function , new IPV disclosures , utilization and cost of support services , changes in abuse patterns , quality of life , and readiness to make relationship changes. We will assess feasibility based on pre-defined criteria for feasibility success and we will analyze secondary outcomes in an exploratory fashion. The PRAISE-2 pilot study is the first step toward determining how experiences of IPV affect orthopaedic outcomes such as injury-related complications. This study will determine feasibility and assist in the development of large-scale multinational prospective IPV studies for our future IPV research program. This study will engage health care professionals from around the world to increase awareness of how IPV affects patients ' musculoskeletal and injury outcomes. clinicaltrials.gov NCT02529267. Registered 20 Aug 2015.