 The neurological disorder cerebral palsy ( CP) is caused by unprogressive lesions<symptom> of the immature brain and affects movement , posture<symptom> , and the musculoskeletal system. Vibration therapy ( VT) is increasingly used to reduce the signs and symptoms<symptom> associated with this developmental disability. The purpose of this narrative review was systematically to appraise published research regarding acute and long-term effects of VT on functional , neuromuscular , and structural parameters. Systematic searches of three electronic databases identified 28 studies that fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Studies were analyzed to determine participant characteristics , VT-treatment protocols , effect on gross motor function ( GMF) , strength , gait , posture<symptom> , mobility , spasticity , reflex excitability , muscle<symptom> tone , mass , and bone strength within this population , and outcome measures used to evaluate effects. The results revealed that one acute session of VT reduces reflex excitability , spasticity , and coordination<symptom> deficits. Subsequently , VT has a positive effect on the ability to move , manifested for GMF , strength , gait , and mobility in patients with CP. Effects persist up to 30 minutes after VT.. Long-term effects of VT manifest as reduced muscle<symptom> tone and spasticity occurring concomitantly with improved movement ability in regard to GMF , strength , gait , and mobility , as well as increased muscle mass and bone-mineral density. Posture<symptom> control remained unaffected by VT.. In conclusion , the acute and chronic application of VT as a nonpharmacological approach has the potential to ameliorate CP symptoms<symptom> , achieving functional and structural adaptations associated with significant improvements in daily living. Even though further studies including adult populations validating the neuromuscular mechanisms underlying the aforementioned adaptations should be fostered , growing scientific evidence supports the effectiveness of VT in regard to supplementing conventional treatments ( physiotherapy and drugs). Therefore , VT could reduce CP-associated physical disability and sensorimotor handicaps. Goals for patients and their caregivers referring to greater independence and improved safety may be achieved more easily and time efficiently.