 Triple-drug regimens are the gold standard for HIV<pathogen> therapy. Nucleos ( t) ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs) reducing regimens are used to decrease drugs toxicity , exposure and costs. Aim of our study was to evaluate trends of biochemical and inflammatory indices in patients switching to dual therapy ( DT). We included patients that a) switched to a DT from 2007 to 2015 from a tenofovir/abacavir-based triple regimen b) previously maintained a triple and c) subsequently a dual regimen for 12 months with virological suppression. We retrieved data measured at 5 points ( at the switch , 6 and 12 months before and after switch). We used platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio ( PLR) , neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR) and CD4/CD8 ratio as inflammatory indices. We assessed temporal trends of viro-immunological , biochemical and inflammatory parameters. Overall , 364 and 65 patients switched from a tenofovir- and an abacavir-triple regimen , respectively. In the tenofovir-reducing group , creatinine clearance and lipids raised after the switch. There was a significant increase in both CD4 + cells and CD4/CD8. CD8 + cells rose after the switch , while opposite trend was found for PLR. In the abacavir-reducing group total lipids showed a decrease during the first 6 months after the switch and then stabilized. An increase of CD4 + and a decrease of CD8 + cells was observed during the study period , although not statistically significant. While CD4/CD8 remained stable after simplification , PLR decreased significantly after 6 months , then returning to baseline. CD8 + cells increased in the tenofovir-reducing group despite a viro-immunological response. Intriguingly , PLR decreased , maintaining this trend for 12 and 6 months after tenofovir and abacavir interruption respectively. Increased PLR has been linked to hypercholesterolemia and metabolic-syndrome , while high CD8 + cells count to increased risk of non-AIDS-related events regardless of CD4 T-cell recovery and to virological failure. Whether these findings may have clinical implications , and which role DT plays on the immune system and on inflammation<symptom> should be further investigated.