 People living with HIV<pathogen> ( PLWH) suffer from high rates of mental illness; but targeted effective interventions are limited , especially in developing countries. High penetration of smartphone usage and widespread acceptance of social media applications provide an unprecedented opportunity for mobile-based health interventions ( mHealth interventions) in resource-limited settings like China. The current report describes the design and sample characteristics of the Run4Love randomized controlled trial ( RCT) aimed at improving mental health in PLWH in China. A total of 300 PLWH with elevated depressive symptoms<symptom> were recruited and randomized into either the intervention or control group. Participants in the intervention group received an adapted cognitive-behavioral stress management ( CBSM) course delivered by the enhanced WeChat platform ( for 3 months) and were motivated to engage in physical activities. Progress of the participants was automatically tracked and monitored with timely feedback and rewards. The control group received a brochure on nutrition for PLWH in addition to standard care. The outcome assessments are conducted at baseline , 3 , 6 , and 9 months using tablets. The primary outcome is depressive symptoms<symptom> measured by the scale of the Center for Epidemiology Studies Depression<symptom> ( CES-D). Secondary outcomes include quality of life , chronic stress measured with biomarker of hair cortisol , and other measures of stress and depression<symptom> , self-efficacy , coping , HIV-related stigma , physical activity , and patient satisfaction. Mixed effects model with repeated measures ( MMRM) will be used to analyze the intervention effects. The Run4Love study is among the first efforts to develop and evaluate a multicomponent and integrated mHealth intervention to improve the mental health and quality of life of PLWH. Once proven effective , Run4Love could be scaled up and potentially integrated into the routine case management of PLWH and adapted to other populations with chronic<disease> diseases<disease>. Chinese Clinical Trial Registry- ChiCTR-IPR-17012606 , registered on 07 September 2017.