 The prevalence of major depression<symptom> ( MD) according to population studies is the same for old ( 65 years and older) and younger adults. In contrast , an elevated proportion of old MD patients are hospitalized compared to younger adults with MD , indicating a need to expand the characteristics of old inpatients with MD.. To illustrate this point , the association between inflammation<symptom> and MD in old psychiatric inpatients is sparsely investigated even though an association between inflammation<symptom> and treatment resistance among younger adults with MD has been reported. In this study , we aimed to explore the plasma concentrations of 27 immune markers in old inpatients with MD , and our purpose was to expand the understanding of inflammatory mechanisms in these patients. Prior to electroconvulsive treatment of MD , we compared 64 inpatients with unipolar MD ( mean age 75.2 years) and 18 non-depressed controls ( mean age 78.0 years). Symptoms<symptom> characterizing MD were assessed by the Hamilton Rating Scale of Depression<symptom> ( HRSD) -17 , and the immune markers from peripheral blood plasma were analysed using multiplex assay technology. For statistical analysis of data , we used the independent samples median test , independent samples t-test , χ Twenty-two immune markers representing pro- and anti-inflammatory , adaptive and trophic signalling had higher concentrations in the inpatients compared to the controls. Only the four immune markers IL-1β , IL-5 , IL-10 and IL-15 had concentrations below the lower detection limit in a considerable portion ( above 20 %) of the patient cases. A combination of the concentration in plasma of TNF , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF) , IL-1β , IL-7 and monocyte chemotactic protein ( MCP) -1 , correctly classified 98.4 % of the depressed patients and 83.3 % of the non-depressed controls. Plasma concentration of TNF and VEGF were associated with the HRSD-17 scores ( p = 0.017 and 0.005 , respectively). Our results indicate that several inflammatory mechanisms may be highly activated in old psychiatric inpatients with MD , and indicate that immune markers may contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of MD in old persons. NCT01559324 ClinicalTrials.gov.