 Maintenance of hydromineral balance ( HB) is an essential condition for life activity at cellular , tissue , organ and system levels. This activity has been considered as a function of the osmotic regulatory system that focuses on hypothalamic vasopressin ( VP) neurons , which can reflexively release VP into the brain and blood to meet the demand of HB. Recently , astrocytes have emerged as an essential component of the osmotic regulatory system in addition to functioning as a regulator of the HB at cellular and tissue levels. Astrocytes express all the components of osmoreceptors , including aquaporins , molecules of the extracellular matrix , integrins and transient receptor potential channels , with an operational dynamic range allowing them to detect and respond to osmotic changes , perhaps more efficiently than neurons. The resultant responses , i.e. , astroglial morphological and functional plasticity in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei , can be conveyed , physically and chemically , to adjacent VP neurons , thereby influencing HB at the system level. In addition , astrocytes , particularly those in the circumventricular organs , are involved not only in VP-mediated osmotic regulation , but also in regulation of other osmolality-modulating hormones , including natriuretic peptides and angiotensin. Thus , astrocytes play a role in local/brain and systemic HB. The adaptive astrocytic reactions to osmotic challenges are associated with signaling events related to the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and aquaporin 4 to promote cell survival and repair. However , prolonged osmotic stress can initiate inflammatory and apoptotic signaling processes , leading to glial dysfunction and a variety of brain diseases<disease>. Among many diseases<disease> of brain injury and hydromineral disorders , cytotoxic and osmotic cerebral edemas<symptom> are the most common pathological manifestation. Hyponatremia is the most common cause of osmotic cerebral edema<symptom>. Overly fast correction of hyponatremia could lead to central pontine myelinolysis. Ischemic stroke exemplifies cytotoxic cerebral edema<symptom>. In this review , we summarize and analyze the osmosensory functions of astrocytes and their implications in cerebral edema<symptom>.