 There is substantial variability across studies of default mode network ( DMN) connectivity in major depressive disorder , and reliability and time-invariance are not reported. This study evaluates whether DMN dysconnectivity in remitted depression<symptom> ( rMDD) is reliable over time and symptom-independent , and explores convergent relationships with cognitive features of depression<symptom>. A longitudinal study was conducted with 82 young adults free of psychotropic medications ( 47 rMDD , 35 healthy controls) who completed clinical structured interviews , neuropsychological assessments , and 2 resting-state fMRI scans across 2 study sites. Functional connectivity analyses from bilateral posterior cingulate and anterior hippocampal formation seeds in DMN were conducted at both time points within a repeated-measures analysis of variance to compare groups and evaluate reliability of group-level connectivity findings. Eleven hyper- ( from posterior cingulate) and 6 hypo- ( from hippocampal formation) connectivity clusters in rMDD were obtained with moderate<symptom> to adequate reliability in all but one cluster ( ICC 's range = 0.50 to 0.76 for 16 of 17). The significant clusters were reduced with a principle component analysis ( 5 components obtained) to explore these connectivity components , and were then correlated with cognitive features ( rumination , cognitive control , learning and memory , and explicit emotion identification). At the exploratory level , for convergent validity , components consisting of posterior cingulate with cognitive control network hyperconnectivity in rMDD were related to cognitive control ( inverse) and rumination ( positive). Components consisting of anterior hippocampal formation with social emotional network and DMN hypoconnectivity were related to memory ( inverse) and happy emotion identification ( positive). Thus , time-invariant DMN connectivity differences exist early in the lifespan course of depression<symptom> and are reliable. The nuanced results suggest a ventral within-network hypoconnectivity associated with poor memory and a dorsal cross-network hyperconnectivity linked to poorer cognitive control and elevated rumination. Study of early course remitted depression<symptom> with attention to reliability and symptom<symptom> independence could lead to more readily translatable clinical assessment tools for biomarkers.