 The physiopathology of anxiety<symptom> or depression<symptom> related to diabetes is still poorly understood. The treatment with antidepressant drugs is a huge challenge due to theirs adherence low rate and many adverse effects. Thus , the seeking for a better treatment for these associated diseases<disease> is of utmost importance. Given that the oxidative stress in different tissues occurs in diabetes and anxiety<symptom> or depression<symptom> as well , the antioxidant gallic acid becomes an interesting compound to be investigated. Thus , the effects of long-term treatment with gallic acid ( 0 , 10 , 20 and 40 mg/kg; gavage) were evaluated in diabetic ( DBT) animals submitted to the elevated plus-maze ( EPM) , the light-dark transition ( LDT) tests and modified forced swim test ( mFST). Also , indirect parameters of oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation ( LPO) and reduced glutathione ( GSH) levels were evaluated in the hippocampus ( HIP) and prefrontal cortex ( PFC). The results showed that DBT animals presented a decrease in the spent time in the open arms<symptom> , in the end arm exploration and head<disease> dips when evaluated in the EPM test; moreover , a decrease in the spent time in the lit compartment of LDT test was observed , suggesting an anxiogenic-like behavior. During the mFST , an increase in the mean counts of immobility and a decrease in the mean counts of swimming and climbing were observed , indicating a depressive-like behavior. These aversive behaviors were more pronounced when compared to normoglycemic ( NGL) animals and streptozotocin-treated animals that not become DBT. In addition , DBT rats showed an increase in the oxidative stress parameters in the HIP and PFC that was reversed by the gallic acid treatment ( lowest dose- 10 mg/kg) , i.e. , the treatment decreased the elevated LPO levels and increased the reduced GSH in the HIP and PFC. Also , gallic acid treatment was able to produce an anxiolytic-like effect in the EPM and LDT tests , but not antidepressant-like effect in the FST. Taken together , the results suggest that the antioxidant/neuroprotective effect of gallic acid treatment in HIP and PFC of DBT animals may be essential to the anxiolytic-like effect.