 Primary obstructive megaureters ( POM) can be treated with one of the following options: conservative management with antibiotic chemoprophylaxis and active observation of the hydroureteronephrosis ( HUN) until suspicion of renal deterioration; refluxing/non-refluxing ureteric reimplantation with antibiotic suppression; temporary double-J stenting; endoscopic balloon dilatation; endoureterotomy; and end cutaneous ureterostomy ( ECU). To study the profile of patients with POM and assess the efficacy , safety and outcome of ECU as an interim procedure. A retrospective review was performed of patients who underwent ECU for POM between January 2004 and December 2014. Demographics , surgical details , and outcomes were studied. A total of 25 patients ( 19 males , six females) underwent ECU of 25 renal units for POM at a mean age of 7 months ( range 23 days to 2.5 years). Of these , nine had presented with radiological worsening of antenatally detected HUN , 12 had symptoms<symptom> ( urosepsis in nine and palpable hydronephrosis in three) , three had a solitary kidney in renal<symptom> failure<symptom> , and one had incidentally diagnosed renal cortical thinning as shown in Table below. Following diversion , renal<symptom> failure<symptom> had resolved in all , and febrile urinary<disease> tract<disease> infection<disease> ( UTI) developed in one while awaiting reimplantation. Undiversion was performed in 21/25 patients at a mean duration of 12 months after diversion and a mean age of 19 months. In these , the ureteric size had decreased significantly at reimplantation. In 4/25 , undiversion was not performed due to loss of follow-up in two and a subsequent nephrectomy in two. Two out of 21 developed febrile UTI after undiversion. The overall mean follow-up period was 34.2 months ( n = 25) , while the mean follow-up after undiversion was 41.5 months ( n = 21). There was no incidence of stomal complications. End cutaneous ureterostomy was a safe and effective temporary procedure for the treatment of progressive primary obstructive megaureters.