 The objective of the work described in this paper is the development of a computationally efficient methodology for patient-specific automatic seizure<symptom> detection in long-term multi-channel EEG recordings. A novel patient-specific seizure<symptom> detection approach based on a signal-derived empirical mode decomposition ( EMD)- based dictionary approach is proposed. For this purpose , we use an empirical framework for EMD-based dictionary creation and learning , inspired by traditional dictionary learning methods , in which the EMD-based dictionary is learned from the multi-channel EEG data being analyzed for automatic seizure<symptom> detection. We present the algorithm for dictionary creation and learning , whose purpose is to learn dictionaries with a small number of atoms. Using training signals belonging to seizure<symptom> and non-seizure classes , an initial dictionary , termed as the raw dictionary , is formed. The atoms of the raw dictionary are composed of intrinsic mode functions obtained after decomposition of the training signals using the empirical mode decomposition algorithm. The raw dictionary is then trained using a learning algorithm , resulting in a substantial decrease in the number of atoms in the trained dictionary. The trained dictionary is then used for automatic seizure<symptom> detection , such that coefficients of orthogonal projections of test signals against the trained dictionary form the features used for classification of test signals into seizure<symptom> and non-seizure classes. Thus no hand-engineered features have to be extracted from the data as in traditional seizure<symptom> detection approaches. The performance of the proposed approach is validated using the CHB-MIT benchmark database , and averaged accuracy , sensitivity and specificity values of 92.9 % , 94.3 % and 91.5 % , respectively , are obtained using support vector machine classifier and five-fold cross-validation method. These results are compared with other approaches using the same database , and the suitability of the approach for seizure<symptom> detection in long-term multi-channel EEG recordings is discussed. The proposed approach describes a computationally efficient method for automatic seizure<symptom> detection in long-term multi-channel EEG recordings. The method does not rely on hand-engineered features , as are required in traditional approaches. Furthermore , the approach is suitable for scenarios where the dictionary once formed and trained can be used for automatic seizure<symptom> detection of newly recorded data , making the approach suitable for long-term multi-channel EEG recordings.