 Social isolation presents a risk factor and worsens outcome to cerebrovascular diseases<disease>; however , the underlying mechanisms remain underspecified. This study examines the effect of social environment on microglial reactivity after global cerebral ischemia , to test the hypothesis that social isolation leads to greater microglial responses. Adult female and male mice were pair-housed or socially isolated for one week prior to cardiac arrest/cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CA/CPR) or the sham procedure , and following either 2 or 24 h of reperfusion , microglia samples were enriched and analyzed for gene expression. At the 2-hour time point , microglia from both females and males exhibited ischemia-induced inflammation<symptom> , characterized by the gene expression increase of tumor necrosis<symptom> factor alpha ( TNF-α) , interleukin 1 beta ( IL-1β) and interleukin 6 ( IL-6) , regardless of the housing conditions. However , at 24 h post-ischemia , social housing attenuated microglial pro-inflammatory gene expression in a sex-specific manner. At this time point , the ischemia-induced increased expression of IL-1β and IL-6 was attenuated by social interaction in microglia from male mice , while among female mice social attenuation of the inflammatory response was observed in the microglial expression of cell surface protein major histocompatibility complex II ( MHC II). A second study examined behavioral and physiological measures 96 h after ischemic injury. At this time point , female and male mice displayed increased locomotion and exploratory behavior following CA/CPR relative to controls. Regardless of sex , ischemia also elicited neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration , both of which were modulated by the social environment. Hippocampal nitric oxide ( iNOS) , cortical TNF-α , and counts of Fluoro-Jade C positive stained cells in the CA1 region of the hippocampus , were increased in the isolated CA/CPR group relative to sham controls and the pair-housed CA/CPR groups. Together , these data indicate that female and male mice exhibit similar outcome measures and social modulation at 96 h post-ischemic injury , nonetheless , that social environment influences microglial reactivity to global cerebral ischemia in a sex-specific manner.