 Achieving adequate pain control for rib fractures remains challenging; prescription of alternatives to narcotics is imperative to curtail the current opioid epidemic. Although gabapentin has shown promise following elective thoracic procedures , its efficacy in patients with rib fractures remains unstudied. We hypothesized that gabapentin , as compared to placebo , would both improve acute<symptom> pain<symptom> control and decrease narcotic use among critically ill patients with rib fractures. Adult patients admitted to the trauma surgery service from November 2016- November 2017 at an urban , Level I trauma center with one or more rib fractures were randomized to either gabapentin 300 mg thrice daily or placebo for one month following their injury. Daily numeric pain scores , opioid consumption , oxygen requirement , respiratory rate , and incentive spirometry recordings during the index admission , as well as and one-month quality of life survey data were abstracted. Forty patients were randomized. The groups were well matched with respect to age , gender , prior narcotic use , tobacco use , and prior respiratory<disease> disease<disease>. Although the median RibScore did not differ between groups , the gabapentin group had a higher median number of ribs fractured as compared to the placebo group ( 7 vs. 5 , respectively). Degree of pulmonary contusion and injury severity score were similar between groups. Use of loco-regional anesthetic modalities did not differ between groups. Daily numeric pain scores , opioid consumption , oxygen requirement , respiratory rate , and incentive spirometry recordings were similar between both groups. No benefit was observed when adding gabapentin to a multi-modal analgesic regimen for rib fractures. There were no instances of pneumonia<disease><symptom> , respiratory<symptom> failure<symptom> , or mortality in either group. Hospital and intensive care unit length of stay were similar between groups. Both overall and chest-specific quality of life was equivalent between groups at one month follow-up. In this group of critically ill patients with rib fractures , gabapentin did not improve acute outcomes for up to one month of treatment.