 Genital numbness and erectile dysfunction in cyclists may result from repeated perineal impacts on the bicycle saddle ( micro-trauma) that occur during routine cycling. To evaluate the relationship between oscillation forces and perineal pressures<symptom> among cyclists in a simulated laboratory setting. Participants were fit to a study bicycle to ensure all cyclists had the same torso angle ( 60 ± 1 degree) and maximum knee angle ( 150 ± 1 degree). A lever system was used to generate oscillation events of 3 progressively increasing magnitudes. Perineal pressure was continuously measured using a pressure sensor on the bicycle saddle. This process was carried out in each of the following conditions: ( 1) stationary ( not pedaling) with the standard seatpost , ( 2) pedaling with standard seatpost , ( 3) stationary with seatpost shock<symptom> absorber , and ( 4) pedaling with seatpost shock<symptom> absorber. We compared perineal pressure changes during oscillation events in the stationary and pedaling states , with and without the seatpost shock<symptom> absorber. A total of 39 individuals were recruited ( 29 men and 10 women). As the amount of oscillation increased from an average of 0.7 g ( acceleration due to Earth 's gravity) to 1.3 g , the perineal pressure increased from 10.3 % over baseline to 19.4 % over baseline. There was a strong linear relationship between the amount of oscillation and increase in pressure ( r This study represents one of the first characterizations of cycling-associated perineal micro-trauma in a laboratory setting. We found a strong linear relationship between oscillation magnitude and perineal pressure during cycling , which was mitigated by a seatpost shock<symptom> absorber. The use of shock<symptom> absorption in bicycle design may reduce perineal micro-trauma and potentially improve cycling-associated perineal numbness and erectile dysfunction. Sanford T , Gadzinski AJ , Gaither T , et al.. Effect of Oscillation on Perineal Pressure in Cyclists: Implications for Micro-Trauma. Sex Med 2018; XX: XXX-XXX.