 Stepfamilies experience unique dynamics , with implications for family functioning and youth well-being. Emerging research is incorporating a holistic perspective whereby stepfamily dynamics are viewed more comprehensively , and constellations of stepfamily relationship quality are identified. In the current study , we examined short-term and long-term associations between latent patterns of stepfamily relationships ( including the quality of mother-child , stepfather-child , nonresident father-child , and stepcouple dyads) and youth adjustment ( i.e. , depression<symptom> , delinquency , self-esteem) across three stages of youth development: adolescence , emerging adulthood , and young adulthood. Using a representative sample of adolescents from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health ( Harris et al. , 2009) , results from longitudinal structural equation models and latent-growth curve models indicated that youth adjustment over time is optimized among youth in a residence-centered ( i.e. , high-quality relationships among mother-child , stepfather-child , and stepcouple dyads) or inclusive ( i.e. , high-quality relationships across all dyads , including the nonresident father) pattern , as compared with youth in an unhappy-couple ( i.e. , low-quality stepcouple relationship) or parent-child disconnection ( i.e. , low-quality relationships between youth and each parental figure) pattern. The results point to many similarities between male and female youth in terms of adjustment responses to patterns of stepfamily relationships , although some differences became apparent. In the context of stepfamily relationships marked by low-quality relationships , male youth might exhibit greater initial levels of externalizing problems than female youth , whereas female youth might exhibit greater initial levels of internalizing problems than male youth. Implications for future research and intervention and prevention efforts are discussed. ( PsycINFO Database Record