 The aim of this pilot study was to investigate whether the clinical Matthiass test can be objectified by means of dynamic rasterstereography in children. We aimed at discriminating between postural weak and strong children. Dynamic rasterstereography was used to capture sagittal spinal posture<symptom> changes during the modified Matthiass test ( mMT). Primary outcomes were spinal posture<symptom> changes ( trunk inclination , kyphotic and lordotic angles) during the test. Two-step cluster analysis was run jointly on the three primary outcomes. Data of 101 healthy children ( 10-14 years , 46 % girls) were assessed. Cluster analysis identified two groups of participants with significantly different postural performance levels during the mMT ( low vs. high performers). Low performers showed a higher increase in backward lean , as well as kyphosis and lordosis ( 4 ° -5 ° , respectively) when compared to high performers. The two performance groups were age- , BMI- , and activity-matched. This pilot study established preliminary normative data on spinal posture<symptom> changes during the Matthiass test ( high performers) and provided corresponding cutoff values for postural weakness<symptom> ( low performers). These results could provide a basis for future longitudinal and interventional studies targeting long-term consequences of childhood postural weakness<symptom> and the prevention of back pain. What is Known: • The prevalence of postural insufficiencies in children is high. • No consensus exists about the postural assessment in children. • A common clinical test to identify postural insufficiency is the Matthiass test yet criticized for its subjective assessment. What is New: • This pilot study objectified the modified Matthiass test by rasterstereography and statistically identified two groups of healthy children with different postural performance levels. • It established preliminary normative data on spinal posture<symptom> changes and provided corresponding cutoff values for postural weakness<symptom>.