 Lesser Antillean anoles provide classic examples of island radiations. A detailed knowledge of their phylogeny and biogeography , in particular how the age of species relate to the ages of their respective islands and the age of their radiation , is essential to elucidate the tempo and mechanisms of these radiations. We conduct a large-scale phylogenetic and phylogeographic investigation of the Lesser Antillean anoles using multiple genetic markers and comprehensive geographic sampling of most species. The multilocus phylogeny gives the first well-supported reconstruction of the interspecific relationships , and the densely sampled phylogeography reveals a highly dynamic system , driven by overseas dispersal , with several alternative post-dispersal colonisation trajectories. These radiations currently occupy both the outer-older ( Eocene to Miocene) , and the inner-younger ( < 8mybp) , Lesser Antillean arcs. The origin of these radiations corresponds with the age of the ancient outer arc. However , the ages of extant species ( compatible with the age of other small terrestrial amniotes) are much younger , about the age of the emergence of the younger arc , or less. The difference between the age of the radiation and the age of the extant species suggests substantial species turnover on older arc islands , most likely through competitive replacement. Although extant anoles are extremely speciose , this may represent only a fraction of their biodiversity over time. While paraphyly enables us to infer several recent colonization events , the absence of the younger arc islands and extant species at the earlier and middle stages of the radiation , does not allow the earlier inter-island colonization to be reliably inferred. Reproductive isolation in allopatry takes a very considerable time ( in excess<symptom> of 8my) and sympatry appears to occur only late in the radiation. The resolved multilocus phylogeny , and relative species age , raise difficulties for some earlier hypotheses regarding size evolution , and provide no evidence for within-island speciation.