 There is growing evidence that air pollution is a risk factor for a number of neurodegenerative diseases<disease> , most notably Alzheimer 's ( AD) and Parkinson 's ( PD). It is generally assumed that the pathology of these diseases<disease> arises only later in life and commonly begins within olfactory eloquent pathways prior to the onset of the classical clinical symptoms<symptom>. The present study demonstrates that chronic exposure to high levels of air pollution results in AD- and PD-related pathology within the olfactory bulbs of children and relatively young adults ages 11 months to 40 years. The olfactory bulbs ( OBs) of 179 residents of highly polluted Metropolitan Mexico City ( MMC) were evaluated for AD- and alpha-synuclein-related pathology. Even in toddlers , hyperphosphorylated tau ( hTau) and Lewy neurites ( LN) were identified in the OBs. By the second decade , 84 % of the bulbs exhibited hTau ( 48/57) , 68 % LNs and vascular amyloid ( 39/57) and 36 % ( 21/57) diffuse amyloid plaques. OB active endothelial phagocytosis of red blood cell fragments containing combustion-derived nanoparticles ( CDNPs) and the neurovascular unit damage were associated with myelinated and unmyelinated axonal damage. OB hTau neurites were associated mostly with pretangle stages 1a and 1b in subjects ≤ 20 years of age , strongly suggesting olfactory deficits could potentially be an early guide of AD pretangle subcortical and cortical hTau. APOE4 versus APOE3 carriers were 6-13 times more likely to exhibit OB vascular amyloid , neuronal amyloid accumulation , alpha-synuclein aggregates , hTau neurofibrillary tangles , and neurites. Remarkably , APOE4 carriers were 4.57 times more likely than non-carriers to die by suicide. The present findings , along with previous data that over a third of clinically healthy MMC teens and young adults exhibit low scores on an odor identification test , support the concept that olfactory testing may aid in identifying young people at high risk for neurodegenerative diseases<disease>. Moreover , results strongly support early neuroprotective interventions in fine particulate matter ( PM