 Fragmentation of the scaphoid proximal pole secondary to avascular necrosis<symptom> presents a difficult reconstructive problem. This anthropometric study assesses the utility of the ipsilateral proximal hamate for complete osteochondral scaphoid proximal pole reconstruction. Twenty-nine cadaveric specimens underwent computed tomography scanning and 3-dimensional reconstruction of the carpus and distal radius. Scaphoid height was measured and a third of its height was used to simulate resection of the proximal scaphoid pole and extent of hamate autograft required. The proximal scaphoid and hamate were divided into 6 sections , and compared using an iterative point-to-point distance algorithm. Average distance between the scaphoid and the hamate surfaces was determined. An interbone algorithm was used to assess radioscaphoid joint congruency and articular contact surface of the native scaphoid compared with the scaphoid reconstructed with hamate autograft. The mean height of scaphoid proximal pole excision and proximal hamate autograft height was 9.3 mm. Comparing the morphology of the native scaphoid and hamate autografts , the absolute distances were the largest in the volar radioscaphoid , dorsal radioscaphoid , and dorsal scaphocapitate segments. Without osteotomy , the hamate autograft may cause impaction in the dorsal-radial aspect of the distal radius. The hamate autograft also shifted the articular contact point of the radioscaphoid joint toward the dorsal-radial position. Nine hamate autografts were classified as poor-fitting. Poor-fitting specimens had a greater radial styloid to distal radioulnar joint distance. These specimens also had wider hamates and scaphoids in the radial-ulnar dimension and wider scaphoids in the volar-dorsal dimension. Lunate type did not correspond to anthropometric fit. The proximal hamate osteochondral graft was poor fitting in 31 % of cases ( 9 of 29 specimens). Wrists with radial-ulnar hamate width less than 10 mm , radial-ulnar scaphoid width less than 10 mm , and volar-dorsal scaphoid width less than 16 mm demonstrate better anthropometric fit. This study provides an anthropometric assessment of the recently described proximal hamate autograft , a new bone graft option for proximal scaphoid pole reconstruction.