 The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of early feed exposure ( EFE) to different feedstuffs in dairy calves on feed preference once fed a free-choice diet and a total mixed ration later in life. Thirty ( 30) female Holstein calves were randomly assigned at birth to 1 of 3 EFE treatments-concentrate only ( CON) , hay only ( HO) , and concentrate and hay ( COH)- from d 2 to 56. After that , all calves were offered both concentrate and hay in different buckets from d 57 to 70 to allow them free choice between the 2 feedstuffs. Calves were then transferred to a heifer barn , housed within treatment in pairs ( 2 calves/pen) , and fed TMR from d 71 to 196. Feed intake was recorded daily from d 2 to 70 to determine the feed preference before and after weaning. Fresh TMR and orts were collected daily in the last week of the experiment ( d 190 to 196) for analysis of feed sorting and intake. Body<symptom> weight<symptom> and structural growth were recorded at d 1 , 28 , 56 , 70 , and 190. Blood for determining glucose and rumen fluid for determining ruminal pH and volatile fatty acids concentrations were sampled on d 28 , 56 , 70 , and 190. Early feed exposure did not affect feed intake , body<symptom> weight<symptom> , average daily gain , blood glucose , and structural growth before and after weaning but did affect feed preference and rumen fermentation. After transition to a free-choice diet , HO calves consumed more hay ( 550.2 g/d) than CON ( 177.4 g/d) and COH ( 396.4 g/d) calves on the first day only. However , COH calves consumed a greater amount of hay , resulting in a higher ratio of hay to total solids compared with either CON or HO calves during d 57 to 70. Upon transition to a TMR , a similar sorting pattern was exhibited between treatments , with calves sorting against the long and for the fine particle fractions. Although no significant long-term effects of different EFE on rumen pH , volatile fatty acids , and blood glucose persisted at wk 27 ( from d 190 to 196) , calves exposed to COH early had an improved ability to sort for long feed particles compared with CON and HO calves later in life. Our results suggest that EFE could influence choice of feed immediately after weaning and may have long-lasting effects on feed preference in heifers later in life. Further studies with more calves are recommended.