 Endothelial hyperpermeability exacerbates multiple<symptom> organ damage during inflammation<symptom> or infection. The endothelial glycocalyx , a protective matrix covering the luminal surface of endothelial cells ( ECs) , undergoes enzymatic shedding during inflammation<symptom> , contributing to barrier hyperpermeability. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 15 ( ADAM15) is a sheddase capable of cleaving the ectodomains of membrane-bound molecules. Here , we tested whether and how ADAM15 is involved in glycocalyx shedding and vascular leakage during sepsis<disease>. Dextran-150kD exclusion assay revealed lipopolysaccharide ( LPS) significantly reduced glycocalyx thickness in mouse cremaster microvessels. Consistently , shedding products of glycocalyx constituents , including CD44 ectodomain , were detected with an increased plasma level after cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP)- induced sepsis<disease>. The direct effects of CD44 ectodomain on endothelial barrier function were evaluated , which revealed CD44 ectodomain dose-dependently reduced transendothelial electric resistance ( TER) and caused cell-cell adherens junction disorganization. Furthermore , we examined the role of ADAM15 in CD44 cleavage and glycocalyx shedding. An in vitro cleavage assay coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry confirmed ADAM15 cleaved CD44 at His235-Thr236 bond. In ECs with ADAM15 knockdown , LPS-induced CD44 cleavage and TER reduction were greatly attenuated , whereas , ADAM15 overexpression exacerbated CD44 cleavage and TER response to LPS. Consistently , ADAM15 knockout in mice attenuated CLP-induced increase in plasma CD44. Intravital and electron microscopic images revealed ADAM15 deficiency prevented LPS-induced glycocalyx injury in cremaster and pulmonary microvasculatures. Functionally , ADAM15-/- mice with better-preserved glycocalyx exhibited resistance to LPS-induced vascular leakage , as evidenced by reduced albumin extravasation in pulmonary and mesenteric vessels. Importantly , in intact , functionally vital human lungs , perfusion of LPS induced a significant up-regulation of ADAM15 , accompanied by elevated CD44 in the effluent and increased vascular permeability to albumin. Together , our data support the critical role of ADAM15 in mediating vascular barrier dysfunction during inflammation<symptom>. Its mechanisms of action involve CD44 shedding and endothelial glycocalyx injury.