 Family-centred care ( FCC) is recognized as best practice in the delivery of early intervention services for children with hearing loss ( HL) and their families. However , there has been little research involving direct observation of family-centred communication practices in paediatric hearing habilitation appointments , which means little is currently known about how family members are involved within appointments , and how FCC is accomplished by health professionals through their interactions with families. To examine the interaction between hearing healthcare professionals , children with HL , and their parents within video-recorded paediatric hearing habilitation appointments ( including both audiology and<symptom> speech<symptom> and language therapy appointments) , with a particular focus on how parents were involved in the interaction. The data for this study involved a corpus of 48 video-recorded paediatric hearing habilitation appointments from three clinical sites ( including 33 audiology appointments and 15 speech pathology appointments). Participants included 14 audiologists , 8 speech and language therapists , 41 children with HL ( aged 18 months and over) and 48 of their attending family members ( e.g. , parents/carers). The data were analyzed using conversation analysis. Analysis revealed one specific practice that health professionals used to engage parents in the interaction during child-directed assessment and therapy tasks: that of ` parent-directed commentaries ' , where health professionals shifted their attention to the parent ( s) to describe or evaluate what they were observing during appointment tasks. Health professionals were observed to produce two types of parent-directed commentaries: ( 1) a positive evaluation of the child 's just-prior response; and ( 2) an account for the child 's prior behaviour ( sometimes also accompanied by a positive evaluation). These commentaries appeared at systematic points in the interaction when the child had been displaying difficulty with their response to the health professional. The parent-directed commentaries accomplished several important functions: they engaged the parent 's attention in the interaction; focused the parent 's attention on positive responses from the child ( while shrouding less positive responses); played down potential negative perceptions of the child 's previous missed/incorrect responses; and provided parents with reassurance of their child 's progress during the ongoing task. The parent-directed commentaries identified in this study provide an example of the practical , interactional resources that health professionals can draw on within paediatric appointments to facilitate FCC with parents.