 To describe a new use of endovenous indocyanine green ( ICG) to allow real-time visualization of bowel perfusion in women with recto-sigmoid endometriosis who may be candidates for segmental resection. Step-by-step explanation of this method using descriptive text and educational video. Tertiary level referral academic center. A nulliparous 36-year-old woman affected by a large rectal endometriotic nodule<disease> was referred for severe dysmenorrhea , dyspareunia , hematochezia , and dyschezia , despite progestinic therapy. An intravenous injection of 1.5 mL solution containing 3.75 mg dose of ICG for intraoperative fluorescence imaging. Evaluation of blood perfusion of bowel and rectal endometriosis nodule<disease>. Evaluation of neoanastomosis vascularization after bowel resection. The procedure of endometriosis removal was performed using the daVinciXi surgical platform ( Intuitive Surgical , Sunnyvale , CA). After ovarian endometriosis removal and adhesiolysis , we identified the endometriosis nodule<disease> on the anterior surface of the rectum. Pararectal , rectovaginal , and retrorectal spaces were dissected with a nerve-sparing technique. Indocyanine green<symptom> was administered through a peripheral line. A near-infrared camera head<disease> enabled vision of the colorant after latency of a few seconds. We observed the ischemic area around the rectal nodule<disease> and perfusion areas upstream and downstream from the lesion<symptom>. We selected the transecting line for rectal resection , taking account of this objective evaluation , beyond the limits of macroscopic disease<disease>. After direct mechanical anastomosis , we checked the rectal vascularization with ICG. To the best of our knowledge , this is the first reported use of endovenous ICG during a bowel resection for deep endometriosis. Endovenous ICG is proposed during surgery for rectosigmoid endometriosis to assess the perfusion of the bowel and select the transecting line. With ICG fluorescence imaging , we can objectively evaluate whether blood supply to the anastomosis is adequate. Endovenous ICG for objective vascular assessment is simple and rapid to use , and no complications related to ICG use were recorded.