 Attention is increasingly being paid to low impact development ( LID) practices in urban stormwater management. Because LID practices offer a wide variety of hydro-environmental benefits , it is often necessary to account for these benefits collectively in cost-benefit analysis and LID alternative selection. The conventional methods of quantifying these benefits , however , can hardly incorporate the preferences of decision makers , and commonly involve tedious parameter estimations. To address these shortcomings , this study adopts a relative performance evaluation method to assess the various hydro-environmental impacts of LID alternatives in small urban catchments. This study considers several categories of hydro-environmental impacts , including water balance<symptom> impact , surface pollutant load abatement , and combined sewer overflow and flood risk mitigation. Several performance indicators are used for each impact category. The system-wide effectiveness of an LID alternative is then derived by the weighted aggregation of its indicator scores , which are obtained by comparing its performance with that of all of the other alternatives. The hydro-environmental impact of green roofs and bioretention cells of varying areas in New<pathogen> York City , U.S. are investigated in detail. The results suggest that a green roof that covers the whole catchment is as effective as a bioretention cell that covers 3 % -5 % of the catchment in terms of stormwater management , and that the effectiveness of a bioretention cell doubles when its surface area increases from 2 % to 10 % of the catchment area. These assessment results are influenced by catchment-specific assessment criteria ( e.g. , the high flow threshold) and management interests , which suggests that design guidelines for different catchments should be tailored to their natural and drainage characteristics. The framework used in this study allows stakeholders ' interests to be reflected in LID alternative selections and the implications of different design guidelines to be thoroughly investigated.