 We present a case of small bowel evisceration occurring as a late complication following vaginal hysterectomy and subsequent vault prolapse. A 92-year-old female presented with sudden onset severe abdominal<symptom> pain<symptom> , followed by the sensation of vaginal fullness and the discovery of a large prolapse per vagina , with no history of trauma or sexual intercourse. Past medical history consisted of vaginal hysterectomy 20 years previously with a subsequent sacrospinous vault fixation. On examination , a vaginal vault prolapse was found with 3 feet of oedematous small bowel prolapsed through it. Peristalsis remained visible. An emergency laparotomy was undertaken as a joint procedure between the gynaecology and general surgery teams. The small bowel was gently manipulated back through a 3 cm defect in the vault. Once in the abdomen , it was found to be viable and no resection was required. The vault defect was closed with 1/0 Vicryl and the vault was then fixed to the left lateral side wall of the peritoneum. Routine closure of the abdomen was performed after saline washout. Recovery was complicated by a postoperative ileus requiring nasogastric tube insertion for two days. She recovered well following this and will be followed up in the gynaecology outpatient clinic. Small bowel evisceration is a rare complication following hysterectomy. With relatively few cases reported in the literature , incidence is difficult to determine. The most commonly reported risk factors are postmenopausal atrophy , previous vaginal surgery and enterocele. Cases have been reported following both abdominal and vaginal surgical approaches , and are commonly precipitated by sexual intercourse , introduction of a foreign body into the vagina or increased intra-abdominal pressure ( Gandhi and Jha 2011). Vaginal evisceration is a gynaecological emergency. Prompt recognition is vital in order to prevent compromise of intra-abdominal contents ( Codd et al. 2010). Management requires a multidisciplinary approach and early transfer to theatre for urgent surgical repair; various different approaches have been described , however , if there is any question about organ viability exploration via a midline laparotomy is indicated ( Gandhi and Jha 2011). Educational message/learning point: We have presented this case in order to raise awareness of small bowel evisceration as a late complication following hysterectomy. Clinicians in both general surgery and gynaecology should be aware of its potentially non-specific presenting symptoms<symptom> , as eviscerated organs may not be particularly evident on admission. This is a life threatening condition that requires immediate recognition and management via a multidisciplinary approach.