 Articular cartilage has a very limited ability to self-heal after injury or degeneration due to its low cellularity , poor proliferative activity , and avascular nature. Current clinical options are able to alleviate patient suffering , but can not sufficiently regenerate the lost tissue. Biomimetic scaffolds that recapitulate the important features of the extracellular matrix ( ECM) of cartilage are hypothesized to be advantageous in supporting cell growth , chondrogenic differentiation , and integration of regenerated cartilage with native cartilage , ultimately restoring the injured tissue to its normal function. It remains a challenge to support and maintain articular cartilage regenerated by bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMSCs) , which are prone to hypertrophy and endochondral ossification after implantation in vivo. In the present work , a nanofibrous poly ( l-lactic acid) ( NF PLLA) scaffold developed by our group was utilized because of the desired highly porous structure , high interconnectivity , and collagen-like NF architecture to support rabbit BMSCs for articular cartilage regeneration. We further hypothesized that matrilin-3 ( MATN3) , a non-collagenous , cartilage-specific ECM protein , would enhance the microenvironment of the NF PLLA scaffold for cartilage regeneration and maintain the cartilage property. To test this hypothesis , we seeded BMSCs on the NF PLLA scaffold with or without MATN3. We found that MATN3 suppresses hypertrophy in this 3D culture system in vitro. Subcutaneous implantation of the chondrogenic cell/scaffold constructs in a nude mouse model showed that pretreatment with MATN3 was able to maintain chondrogenesis and prevent hypertrophy and endochondral ossification in vivo. These results demonstrate that the porous NF PLLA scaffold treated with MATN3 represents an advantageous 3D microenvironment for cartilage regeneration and phenotype maintenance , and is a promising strategy for articular cartilage repair. Articular cartilage defects , caused by trauma , inflammation<symptom> , or joint<symptom> instability<symptom> , may ultimately lead to debilitating pain and disability. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMSCs) are an attractive cell source for articular cartilage tissue engineering. However , chondrogenic induction of BMSCs is often accompanied by undesired hypertrophy , which can lead to calcification and ultimately damage the cartilage. Therefore , a therapy to prevent hypertrophy and endochondral ossification is of paramount importance to adequately regenerate articular cartilage. We hypothesized that MATN3 ( a non-collagenous ECM protein expressed exclusively in cartilage) may improve regeneration of articular cartilage with BMSCs by maintaining chondrogenesis and preventing hypertrophic transition in an ECM mimicking nanofibrous scaffold. Our results showed that the administration of MATN3 to the cell/nanofibrous scaffold constructs favorably maintained chondrogenesis and prevented hypertrophy/endochondral ossification in the chondrogenic constructs in vitro and in vivo. The combination of nanofibrous PLLA scaffolds and MATN3 treatment provides a very promising strategy to generate chondrogenic grafts with phenotypic stability for articular cartilage repair.