 The prevalence of low back<symptom> pain<symptom> ( LBP) in athletes across a variety of time frames and sports is not known. To systematically collate and appraise studies on the prevalence of LBP in athletes and stratify by point , one year and life-time prevalence. A comprehensive search was conducted in February 2016. The following sources were individually searched: PubMed ( 1950 to present) , Ovid SP Medline ( 1950 to present) , ISI ( 1982 to present) and Google Scholar; Surveys were included if they aimed to report the prevalence of LBP amongst the athletes. Two reviewers independently evaluated the methodological quality of the studies. The literature search generated 4379 records. Title and/or abstracts were reviewed by two investigators and full-texts of 201 relevant articles were selected for further evaluation. Studies were included if they reported the prevalence of LBP in an athletic population ( any level of participation in sports and any age range) and were written in English. Furthermore , to adequately assess the prevalence rate , studies had to report the number of athletes with LBP as a percentage of the total number of athletes. Studies that did not contain necessary data to calculate prevalence rate including case reports and non-original studies were excluded and 41 studies entered the bias assessment step. A bias assessment was applied to the methodology of 41 studies , and 36 with low to moderate risk for bias were included in this review. LBP in athletes was shown to have a point prevalence ranging from 10 % to 67 % , a one-year prevalence ranging from 17 % to 94 % , and a life-time prevalence ranging from 33 % to 84 %. The highest prevalence of LBP was found among skiers , floorball players and rowers and the lowest were found in shooters , golfers and triathletes. Like general population , LBP is quite prevalent among athletes. There is a lack of sound data on the prevalence and mechanism of LBP in some popular sports such as volleyball , swimming and track and field. The lack of standardization of research methods and outcome measurement tools are significant problems in literature. Researchers need to use standard and internationally acceptable definitions for LBP and related functional disability. Investigators are encouraged to conduct epidemiologic studies , along with search for possible mechanism of LBP , by recruitment of large sample population of the athletes who are selected through randomization of the national population and adopt recent recommendations for a standard definition of LBP.