 Although infectious bronchitis<symptom> virus<pathogen> ( IBV) has been described as one of the most economically important viral respiratory<disease> diseases<disease>diseases<disease> in poultry , there are few analyses of outbreaks that use spatial statistics. In order to better understand how the different genotypes of IBV behave spatially and temporally , we used geographic information system-based mapping coupled with spatial and spatial-temporal statistics to identify statistically significant clustering of multiple strains of infectious bronchitis<symptom> ( IB) between 2008 and 2012 in California. Specifically , space-time permutation and multinomial models were used to identify spatial and spatial-temporal clusters of various genotypes of IBV. Using time permutations ( i.e. , windows) spanning days to years , we identified three statistically significant ( P < 0.05) clusters. In contrast , multinomial models identified two statistically significant spatial-temporal clusters and one statistically significant spatial cluster. When comparing the space-time permutation and multinomial models against each other , we identified spatial and temporal overlap in two of the three statistically significant clusters. From a practical perspective , multinomial clustering approaches may be advantageous for studying IB because the model allows the different genotypes of IB to be independent nominal variables , thereby allowing for a more detailed spatial analysis. To that point , based on their risk ratios , the genotypes classified as vaccine-related were identified as the most significant contributor to two of the three mutinomial clusters. Additionally , statistically significant clusters were mapped and layered on a hot-spot analysis of commercial poultry farm density in order to qualitatively assess the relationship between farm density and clusters of IBV. Results showed that one of the three space-time permutations and one of the three multinomial clusters were spatially centered near the highest density farm areas , as determined by the hot-spot analysis.