 Diffusion plays a central part in many unit operations. The Maxwell-Stefan model is the dominant model for both gaseous and liquid diffusion. However , it was developed from the kinetic theory of gases , raising the question of whether it can be extended to non-ideal liquid systems. The dynamic fluctuation model is an alternative model based on the Cussler theory and predicts a smaller thermodynamic influence relative to the linear influence of the Maxwell-Stefan model due to dynamic concentration fluctuations<symptom>. Since the dynamic fluctuation model , which uses the scaling factor α , had improved performance relative to the Maxwell-Stefan model for a wide range of binary systems , it is postulated that this improved performance should also be observed for a ternary system. In this work , the dynamic molecular fluctuation model was extended to a highly non-ideal ternary system , using the same scaling factor α , through matrix manipulation. Using self-diffusion data measured by NMR , mutual diffusion predictions of the developed model and the Maxwell-Stefan model were compared to experimental mutual diffusion data of the partially miscible system ethanol/toluene/n-decane. It is demonstrated that the dynamic fluctuation model gives improved predictions relative to the Maxwell-Stefan approach , consistent with previous observations on binary systems , showing that the reduced thermodynamic influence of the dynamic fluctuation model is an improvement. In addition , we show that the use of local mole fractions , to account for molecular association , in both the dynamic fluctuation and Maxwell-Stefan models , results in improved diffusion predictions for the ternary system. The results confirm that the dynamic fluctuation model improves predictions of mutual diffusion in liquid mixtures , suggesting a non-linear correction to the thermodynamic correction factor. The results also suggest that that the key assumptions in the Maxwell-Stefan model and its derivation , rooted in the kinetic theory of gases , are not entirely accurate for highly non-ideal liquid systems. The optimum α for the ternary system studied here is approximately 0.45 , similarly to the optimum α of 0.40 to 0.80 for a range of binary systems previously studied , suggesting that the use of the α scaling factor , which is grounded in scaling laws theory , is of general validity.