 Over the last three decades , the prognosis of osteosarcoma has remained unchanged; the prognosis for patients with lung metastasis is still poor , and the development of new treatments is urgently required. We previously showed that aggressive osteosarcoma cells express more tissue factor ( TF) and demonstrate enhanced extrinsic pathway capacity. Furthermore , tumor growth can be suppressed with the anticoagulant low molecular weight<symptom> heparin. However , the molecular mechanisms underlying TF regulation are still unclear. Here , we report that transforming growth factor-β ( TGF-β) upregulates TF , which can occur via activated platelets. TF was found to be expressed on osteosarcoma cell surfaces , which mediated the production of Xa and thrombin. TF induction by TGF-β was observed in several osteosarcoma cells , and especially in MG 63 cells. Both TF expression by TGF-β and extrinsic pathway activity through TF were rapidly increased. This reaction was inhibited by a TGF-β type I receptor inhibitor and TGF-β neutralizing antibody. Although TGF-β was found to phosphorylate both Smad2 and 3 , their roles were markedly disparate. Surprisingly , Smad2 knockdown resulted in no inhibitory effect , whereas Smad3 knockdown completely suppressed TGF-β-induced TF expression. Next , data suggested that platelets were the source of TGF-β. We confirmed that thrombin-activated platelets and osteosarcoma cells could release TGF-β , and that platelet-derived TGF-β could induce TF expression. These processes were also inhibited by a TGF-β type I receptor inhibitor and Smad3 knockdown. Moreover , CD42b , TF , TGF-β , Smad2/3 , and p-Smad2/ 3 were also detected in a biopsy sample from an osteosarcoma patient. Collectively , these finding suggested that the interaction between osteosarcoma cells and platelets , via thrombin and TGF-β , results in a continuous cycle , and that anti-platelet or anti-TGF-β therapy could be a promising tool for disease<disease> treatment. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.