 Methamphetamine ( Meth) is a psychomotor stimulant associated with increased sexual drive and risky sexual behaviors in both men and women. Females are comparatively understudied , despite the fact that are just as likely as men to use methamphetamine. Importantly , Meth-associated sexual behaviors put female-users at a greater risk for unplanned pregnancies , and increase the risk of psychiatric co-morbidities such as depression<symptom>. Our work in a rodent model has demonstrated that in the presence of the ovarian steroids , estradiol ( EB) and progesterone ( P) , methamphetamine facilitates the activation of neurons of in the Medial Amygdala ( MePD) and Ventromedial Nucleus of the Hypothalamus ( VMN) , nuclei that are integral to female sexual behavior. As methamphetamine has been previously associated with epigenetic changes in males , we hypothesized that methamphetamine may facilitate sexual motivation in females by modulating the amount of epigenetic enzymatic activity in the VMN and MePD. To test this hypothesis , histone deacetylase ( HDAC) and DNA methyltransferase ( DNMT) activity was quantitated in both the VMN and MePD in the presence and absence of methamphetamine in females who were ovariectomized ( OVX) , or OVXed and hormone replaced with EB + P. DMNT1 and DNMT3B protein levels were also assessed. Our results show that methamphetamine alters DNMT and HDAC activity in the MePD in an ovarian steroid-dependent fashion. Both methamphetamine alone and EB + P alone significantly reduce DNMT enzymatic activity in an OVX female , but do not further decrease activity when both are given in combination. In contrast , no changes in HDAC or DNMT activity were seen in the VMN regardless of treatment , but the amount of DNMT3b after methamphetamine was significantly altered depending on the presence or absence of ovarian steroids. Taken together , these results support the hypothesis that methamphetamine induces change on an epigenetic level in female rats in both a hormone and nucleus dependent manner , and suggests epigenetic changes may play a role in methamphetamine 's mechanism to facilitate the sexual motivation.