 Effective clinical communication is fundamental to tackling overweight and obesity. However , little is known about how weight<symptom> is discussed in non-weight-specific settings where the primary purpose of the interaction concerns clinical matters apparently unrelated to weight<symptom>. This study explores how mental health clinicians initiate discussions about a patient 's possible weight<symptom> problem in the non-weight-specific setting of a UK NHS Gender Identity Clinic ( GIC) , where weight<symptom> is topicalized during discussions about the risks of treatment. A conversation analytic study. A total of 194 recordings of routine clinician-patient consultations were collected from the GIC. Weight<symptom> talk was initiated by four clinicians in 43 consultations. Twenty-one instances contained reference to a possible weight<symptom> problem. Transcripts were analysed using conversation analysis. Clinicians used three communication practices to initiate discussion of a possible weight<symptom> problem with patients: ( 1) announcing that patients are overweight; ( 2) asking patients whether they are overweight; and ( 3) deducing that patients are overweight or obese via a body mass index ( BMI) calculation. Announcing that patients are overweight is the least aligning practice that denies patient 's agency and grammatically constrains them to agree with a negative label. Asking patients whether they are overweight treats them as having limited agency and generates comparatively aligning , but occasionally resistant , responses. Jointly deducing that patients are overweight or obese via a BMI calculation is the most aligning practice , which deflects responsibility for labelling the patient onto an objective instrument. Small differences in the wording of turns that initiate discussions about a possible weight<symptom> problem can have significant consequences for interactional alignment. Clinicians from different specialities may benefit from considering the interactional consequences of different practices for initiating discussions about weight<symptom> during the kinds of real-life discussions considered here. Statement of contribution What is already known on this subject? There is a correlation between clinical communication about weight<symptom> and patient weight<symptom> loss<symptom>. Clinicians from all specialties are encouraged to discuss diet and exercise with patients , but communication about weight<symptom> remains problematic. Health psychologists have identified an urgent need for communication training to raise sensitive topics like weight<symptom> without damaging the doctor-patient relationship. What does this study add? Clinicians in a non-weight-specific setting use three communication practices to introduce the possibility that a patient 's weight<symptom> may be a problem. These practices have varying consequences for the interaction and doctor-patient relationship. Conversation analytic findings may be useful in training clinicians how to initiate discussions about weight<symptom> with patients.