 Social , mental , and physical health have a complex interrelationship with each influencing individuals ' overall health experience. Social circumstances have been shown to influence symptom<symptom> intensity and magnitude of disability for a variety of medical conditions. We tested the null hypothesis that social deprivation would not impact Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System ( PROMIS) scores or objective health factors in patients presenting for treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome<symptom> ( CTS). This cross-sectional study analyzed data from 367 patients who presented for evaluation of CTS to 1 of 6 hand surgeons at a tertiary academic center between August 1 , 2016 , and June 30 , 2017. Patients completed PROMIS Physical Function-v1.2 , Pain Interference-v1.1 , Depression-v1.0 , and Anxiety-v1.0 Computer Adaptive Tests. The Area Deprivation Index was used to quantify social deprivation. Medical record review determined duration of symptoms<symptom> , tobacco and opioid use , and the Charlson Comorbidity Index ( CCI) for each patient. Sample demographics , PROMIS scores , and objective health measures were compared in groups defined by national quartiles of social deprivation. Patients with CTS living in the most deprived quartile had worse mean scores across all 4 PROMIS domains compared with those living in the least deprived quartile. A higher proportion of individuals from the most deprived quartile had a heightened level of anxiety<symptom> than those in the least deprived quartile ( 37.3 % vs 12.6 %). The mean CCI was higher in the most deprived quartile , as was the proportion of individuals using tobacco. There were no differences in opioid use or symptom<symptom> duration between patients from each deprivation quartile. Social deprivation is associated with worse patient-reported health measures in patients with CTS. Compared with those from the least deprived areas , patients from the most deprived areas also have a greater comorbidity burden and higher rates of tobacco use at presentation to a hand surgeon. Prognostic II.