 Neurologic deterioration is the primary distinctive complication after revascularization surgery in patients with moyamoya disease<disease> ( MMD). The present study investigates the risk factors for neurologic deterioration after combined direct and indirect revascularization in patients with MMD. A retrospective review of 123 patients with MMD undergoing 138 combined direct and indirect revascularization procedures was performed. Demographics , clinical manifestation , medical history , neurologic deterioration complications , and relevant information of operation were recorded. There were 25 ( 18.12 %) postoperative neurologic deterioration complications ( 13 reversible neurological deficits ( RND) , nine infarctions with neurological sequelae and three hemorrhages<symptom>). Preoperative multiple symptom<symptom> episodes and one-staged bilateral revascularization were significantly correlated with postoperative neurologic deterioration complications ( p < 0.05 and p < 0.01 , respectively). The incidence rate （ 26.39 % ） of ischemic MMD 's postoperative neurologic deterioration was significantly higher than hemorrhagic MMD （ 7.69 % ） （ p ＜ 0.01 ）. 34.78 % of patients with transient ischemic attack ( TIA) onset and 22.45 % of patients with infarction onset suffered from postoperative neurologic deterioration , and there was no significant difference between them （ p ＞ 0.05 ）. Postoperative neurologic deterioration complications had no significant correlation with sex , age at the time of surgery , type of surgical procedure , unilateral MMD or not , interval between the last attack and operation , and history of thyroid disease<disease> , hypertension , and autoimmune disease<disease>. Preoperative multiple symptom<symptom> episodes and one-staged bilateral revascularization are risk factors associated with postoperative neurologic deterioration in patients with MMD. Therefore , two unilateral revascularization procedures successively rather than one-staged bilateral revascularization procedures should be performed in patients with bilateral MMD.