 In X-linked hypophosphatemia ( XLH) , inherited loss-of-function mutations in the PHEX gene cause excess circulating levels of fibroblast growth factor 23 ( FGF23) , leading to lifelong renal phosphate wasting and hypophosphatemia. Adults with XLH present with chronic musculoskeletal pain and stiffness , short stature , lower limb deformities , fractures , and pseudofractures due to osteomalacia , accelerated osteoarthritis , dental abscesses<symptom> , and enthesopathy. Burosumab , a fully human monoclonal antibody , binds and inhibits FGF23 to correct hypophosphatemia. This report summarizes results from a double-blind , placebo-controlled , phase 3 trial of burosumab in symptomatic adults with XLH. Participants with hypophosphatemia and pain<symptom> were assigned 1:1 to burosumab 1 mg/kg ( n = 68) or placebo ( n = 66) subcutaneously every 4 weeks ( Q4W) and were comparable at baseline. Across midpoints of dosing intervals , 94.1 % of burosumab-treated participants attained mean serum phosphate concentration above the lower limit of normal compared with 7.6 % of those receiving placebo ( p < 0.001). Burosumab significantly reduced the Western Ontario and the McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index ( WOMAC) stiffness subscale compared with placebo ( least squares ( LS) mean ± standard error ( SE) difference , -8.1 ± 3.24; p = 0.012). Reductions in WOMAC physical function subscale ( -4.9 ± 2.48; p = 0.048) and Brief Pain Inventory worst pain ( -0.5 ± 0.28; p = 0.092) did not achieve statistical significance after Hochberg multiplicity adjustment. At week 24 , 43.1 % ( burosumab) and 7.7 % ( placebo) of baseline active fractures were fully healed; the odds of healed fracture in the burosumab group was 16.8-fold greater than that in the placebo group ( p < 0.001). Biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption increased significantly from baseline with burosumab treatment compared with placebo. The safety profile of burosumab was similar to placebo. There were no treatment-related serious adverse events or meaningful changes from baseline in serum or urine calcium , intact parathyroid hormone , or nephrocalcinosis. These data support the conclusion that burosumab is a novel therapeutic addressing an important medical need in adults with XLH. © 2018 The Authors. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research Published by Wiley Periodicals , Inc..