 Few studies have compared midwife-led and physician-led care in the United States. Our objective was to compare the frequency of birth interventions and maternal and neonatal outcomes between women who received prenatal care from a midwife and those who received care from a physician , among women who were low risk when they initiated prenatal care. We performed a retrospective cohort study of women giving birth at a large public hospital who had at least one prenatal visit before 20 weeks ' gestation in the years 2012 through 2015. We classified women according to prenatal care provider type ( midwife vs physician) at first prenatal visit and compared birth outcomes between the groups , using intent-to-treat analyses. We used modified Poisson regression to calculate adjusted risk ratios ( aRRs) for common outcomes and logistic regression with Firth 's bias correction to produce adjusted odds ratios ( aORs) for rare outcomes. As a sensitivity analysis , we performed a matched propensity score analysis to account for potential confounding by indication. Midwives provided care to 8.2 % of the women; physicians provided care to 91.8 % of the women. Women in midwifery care were less likely to be black , have Medicaid insurance , or have a history of pregnancy complications or previous cesarean births<symptom> compared with women who received care from physicians. Women in midwifery care had lower risks of cesarean ( aRR , 0.66; 95 % CI , 0.57-0.78) and preterm birth ( aRR , 0.58; 95 % CI , 0.42-0.79) , with no increased odds of neonatal intensive care unit admissions , neonatal deaths , or severe maternal morbidity. Women in midwifery care had increased odds of postpartum hemorrhage<symptom> and shoulder dystocia ( aOR , 3.26; 95 % CI , 1.40-7.58 , and aOR , 1.80; 95 % CI , 1.01-3.22 , respectively); however , these did not remain significant in the propensity score analysis. Among women with low-risk pregnancies , midwifery care was associated with substantially fewer preterm births<symptom> and labor interventions.