 To compare and evaluate the reliability , validity , feasibility , clinical utility , and nurses ' preference of the Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised ( PIPP-R) , the Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale ( N-PASS) , and the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale ( NIAPAS) used for procedural pain in ventilated neonates. Procedural pain is a common phenomenon but is undermanaged and underassessed in hospitalized neonates. Information for clinician selecting pain measurements to improve neonatal care and outcomes are still limited. A prospective observational study and adheres to the relevant EQUATOR guidelines. A total of 1080 pain assessments were made at 90 neonates by two nurses independently , using three scales viewing three phases of videotaped painful ( arterial blood sampling) and non-painful procedures ( diaper change). Internal consistency , inter-rater reliability , discriminant validity , concurrent validity and convergent validity of scales were analyzed. Feasibility , clinical utility , and nurses ' preference of scales were also investigated. All three scales showed excellent inter-raters coefficients ( from 0.991 to 0.992) and good internal consistency ( 0.733 for the PIPP-R , 0.837 for the N-PASS and 0.836 for the NIAPAS , respectively). Scores of painful and nonpainful procedures on the three scales changed significantly across the phases. There was a strong correlation between the three scales with adequate limits of agreement. The mean scores of the N-PASS for feasibility and utility were significantly higher than those of the NIAPAS , but not significantly higher than those of the PIPP-R. The N-PASS was mostly preferred by 55.9 % of the nurses , followed by the NIAPAS ( 23.5 %) and the PIPP-R ( 20.6 %). The three scales are all reliable and valid , but the N-PASS and the NIAPAS performs better in reliability. The N-PASS appears to be a better choice for frontier nurses to assess procedural pain in ventilated neonates based on its good feasibility , utility , and nurses ' preference. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.