 Little is known about clinically relevant changes in guided Internet-based interventions for depression<symptom>. Moreover , methodological and power limitations preclude the identification of patients ' groups that may benefit more from these interventions. This study aimed to investigate response rates , remission rates , and their moderators in randomized controlled trials ( RCTs) comparing the effect of guided Internet-based interventions for adult depression<symptom> to control groups using an individual patient data meta-analysis approach. Literature searches in PubMed , Embase , PsycINFO and Cochrane Library resulted in 13,384 abstracts from database inception to January 1 , 2016. Twenty-four RCTs ( 4889 participants) comparing a guided Internet-based intervention with a control group contributed data to the analysis. Missing data were multiply imputed. To examine treatment outcome on response and remission , mixed-effects models with participants nested within studies were used. Response and remission rates were calculated using the Reliable Change Index. The intervention group obtained significantly higher response rates ( OR = 2.49 , 95 % CI 2.17-2.85) and remission rates compared to controls ( OR = 2.41 , 95 % CI 2.07-2.79). The moderator analysis indicated that older participants ( OR = 1.01) and native-born participants ( 1.66) were more likely to respond to treatment compared to younger participants and ethnic minorities respectively. Age ( OR = 1.01) and ethnicity ( 1.73) also moderated the effects of treatment on remission.Moreover , adults with more severe depressive symptoms<symptom> at baseline were more likely to remit after receiving internet-based treatment ( OR = 1.19). Guided Internet-based interventions lead to substantial positive treatment effects on treatment response and remission at post-treatment. Thus , such interventions may complement existing services for depression<symptom> and potentially reduce the gap between the need and provision of evidence-based treatments.