 This three part systematic review gathered all the current evidence on the use , quality and effects of pelvic examination ( abdominal palpation , bimanual vaginal examination ± visualisation of the cervix) in primary care in diagnosing gynaecological cancer. Research questions • Do primary care practitioners perform pelvic examination during the assessment of symptoms<symptom> , which are potentially indicative of gynaecological cancer? ( RQ1) • What is the quality of pelvic examination performed in primary care , in terms of technical competence and interpretation of findings? ( RQ2) • Is pelvic examination associated with the referral of patients with gynaecological cancer , and if so , in what way? ( RQ3) Methods: PRISMA guidelines were followed. MEDLINE , EMBASE and Cochrane databases were searched using a combination of four terms , their MeSH terms and synonyms: pelvic examination; primary care; competency and gynaecological cancer. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were defined. Citation lists of all identified papers were searched. Two authors ( PW and PM or CMB or CB) independently screened titles , abstracts and the full texts of publications. Data extraction was performed by PW and duplicated in all papers by a second reviewer ( PM , CMB or CB). Paper quality was assessed using CASP methodology. Nine hundred fifty four references were identified: 21 met the inclusion criteria: 5 RQ1; 6 RQ2; 10 RQ3. Examination rates prior to referral were generally low: one paper identified pre-referral PE in 52 % of the patients; remaining papers demonstrated examination in less than half of the patients with suspicious symptoms<symptom>. No papers explored GPs ' competence at performing PE directly; but one paper identified 39 % of ` clinically suspicious ' cervices referred for colposcopy as having no abnormality. Pre-referral PE was associated with reduced diagnostic delay and early stage diagnosis. Pre-referral pelvic examination in symptomatic women appears to be under-performed , despite urgent suspected cancer referral guideline recommendation to do so ( Healthcare Improvement Scotland 2014; National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 2015). While no evidence was found to confirm GPs ' competence for performing PE , there was an association with shorter diagnostic delay and better outcomes in those women where it was performed.