 The aim of this study was to compare the bleaching efficacy and tooth sensitivity ( TS) of a 38 % hydrogen peroxide bleaching agent used for in-office bleaching , applied under different time protocols: a 40-minute application or two 20-minute applications. Forty-four patients from Brazil and Colombia , with right superior canines darker than C2 , were selected for this multicenter , single-blind , randomized trial. The teeth were bleached in two sessions , with a one-week interval between them , in a split-mouth design. The bleaching agent was applied in two 20-minute ( 2 × 20) applications or one 40-minute ( 1 × 40) application in each session according to the manufacturer 's instructions. The color<symptom> changes<symptom> were evaluated by using subjective ( Vita Classical and Vita Bleachedguide) and objective ( Easyshade Spectrophotometer) methods at baseline and 30 days after the second session. Tooth sensitivity was recorded up to 48 hours with a 0-10 visual analog scale. Also , the pH values during the application of bleaching were recorded. Color<symptom> change<symptom> in shade guide units and ΔE were analyzed by using the Student t-test ( α = 0.05). The absolute risk and intensity of TS were evaluated with the McNemar test , the Wilcoxon signed-rank test , and the Friedman test , respectively ( α = 0.05). Significant whitening was observed in both groups after 30 days of clinical evaluation. The use of a 40-minute application did not significantly influence the absolute risk of TS ( 68 % , 95 % confidence interval ( CI) = 53-80) as well as the intensity of TS compared with the acid bleaching gel ( absolute risk of 82 % , 95 % CI = 68-91). The pH values did not differ significantly between groups and at the different assessment periods ( p = 0.42). The use of a 40-minute in-office bleaching agent gel application produced the same whitening degree and TS that the two 20-minute bleaching agent applications did. The former preferably should be applied because one 40-minute application does not require gel refreshing.