 To study the characteristics of serum metabonomics in coronary heart disease<disease> ( CHD) patients diagnosed as phlegm<symptom> or blood stasis pattern and explore effects of formula-pattern correspondence treatment. A total of 102 stable CHD patients were enrolled and divided into phlegm<symptom> group ( P group , n = 52) and blood stasis group ( BS group , n = 50) according to pattern identifification. Gualou Xiebai Banxia Decoction ( , GXBD) and Xuefu Zhuyu Decoction ( , XZD) were used as drug interventions. Relevant indicators of metabonomics were observed by ultra performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ( UPLC-MS) and pattern recognition. Levels of amino acids and phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE) in the CHD group were much higher than those in healthy control group , while the levels of unsaturated fatty acids , sphingosine , Lyso , phosphatidylcholine ( PC) were signifificantly lower ( P < 0.01). Most of the differential metabolites between the CHD and the healthy groups were also common metabolites of phlegm<symptom> and blood stasis. 7 ( Z) , 10 ( Z)- hexadecadienoic acid and DPA were decreased in the P group and increased in the BS group. According to the quantity of retraced metabolites , improvement in metabonomics by formula-pattern correspondence was superior to that without correspondence in the BS group. Based on the varieties of metabolites , GXBD could improve the levels of docosapentaenoic acid ( DPA) , sphingomyelin ( SM) ( d34: 1) , and L-Lactic acid and XZD could ameliorate the levels of sphingosine and Vit E in the P group. In the BS group , GXBD could improve vitamin E level and XZD could make improvements in the levels of octadecanoic acid , phosphoglycerol , and SM ( d34: 1). Phlegm<symptom> and blood stasis in CHD patients present specifific differential metabolites , and share common metabolites. Remarkable differences have been displayed in pathological properties and severity of phlegm<symptom> and blood stasis. Patients with phlegm<symptom> are more likely to have lipid metabolism disorders. However , in patients with blood stasis , problems mainly lie in glucose , protein and fat metabolism and the injury of vascular cell membrane is relatively severe. The metabolic disorder is more complicated than that in phlegm<symptom> pattern. Compared with noncorrespondence , improvement of differential metabolites is more comprehensive and targeted in formula-pattern correspondence with a better effect.