 Nearly 20 % of patients who undergo hiatal hernia ( HH) repair and anti-reflux surgery ( ARS) report recurrent HH at long-term follow-up and may be candidates for redo surgery. Current literature on redo-ARS has limitations due to small sample sizes or single center experiences. This type of redo surgery is challenging due to rare but severe complications. Furthermore , the optimal technique for redo-ARS remains debatable. The purpose of the current multicenter study was to review the outcomes of redo-fundoplication and to identify the best ARS repair technique for recurrent HH and gastroesophageal reflux disease<disease> ( GERD). Data on 975 consecutive patients undergoing hiatal hernia and GERD repair were retrospectively collected in five European high-volume centers. Patient data included demographics , BMI , techniques of the first and redo surgeries ( mesh/type of ARS) , perioperative morbidity , perioperative complications , duration of hospitalization , time to recurrence , and follow-up. We analyzed the independent risk factors associated with recurrent symptoms<symptom> and complications during the last ARS. Statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism Seventy-three ( 7.49 %) patients underwent redo-ARS during the last decade; 71 ( 98 %) of the surgeries were performed using a minimally invasive approach. Forty-two ( 57.5 %) had conversion from Nissen to Toupet. In 17 ( 23.3 %) patients , the initial Nissen fundoplication was conserved. The initial Toupet fundoplication was conserved in 9 ( 12.3 %) patients , and 5 ( 6.9 %) had conversion of Toupet to Nissen. Out of the 73 patients , 10 ( 13 %) underwent more than one redo-ARS. At 8.5 ( 1-107) months of follow-up , patients who underwent reoperation with Toupet ARS were less symptomatic during the postoperative period compared to those who underwent Nissen fundoplication ( p = 0.005 , OR 0.038). Patients undergoing mesh repair during the redo-fundoplication ( 21 %) were less symptomatic during the postoperative period ( p = 0.020 , OR 0.010). The overall rate of complications ( Clavien-Dindo classification) after redo surgery was 11 %. Multivariate analysis showed that the open approach ( p = 0.036 , OR 1.721) , drain placement ( p = 0.0388 , OR 9.308) , recurrence of dysphagia<symptom> ( p = 0.049 , OR 8.411) , and patient age ( p = 0.0619 , OR 1.111) were independent risk factors for complications during the last ARS. Failure of ARS rarely occurs in the hands of experienced surgeons. Redo-ARS is feasible using a minimally invasive approach. According to our study , in terms of recurrence of symptoms<symptom> , Toupet fundoplication is a superior ARS technique compared to Nissen for redo-fundoplication. Therefore , Toupet fundoplication should be considered in redo interventions for patients who initially underwent ARS with Nissen fundoplication. Furthermore , mesh repair in reoperations has a positive impact on reducing the recurrence of symptoms<symptom> postoperatively.