 Osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures ( OVCFs) are an important health issue for which minimally invasive techniques are a feasible treatment. The SpineJack ® ( Vexim) is an intravertebral expandable system designed to improve the correction of the structural modifications caused by OVCFs. Its ability to stabilise and reduce OVCFs at the acute phase being already well established , we sought to evaluate the feasibility of vertebral augmentation with the SpineJack ® in chronic kyphotic OVCFs. All consecutive patients treated with the SpineJack ® were prospectively included if they met the following criteria: ( 1) OVCF considered unstable ( grade A3 according to Magerl 's classification). ( 2) Local kyphotic angle ≥ 20 °. ( 3) OVCF older than 6 weeks. ( 4) Back<symptom> pain<symptom> with visual analogue scale ( VAS) ≥ 4. Nineteen consecutive patients ( 16 women ( 84.2 %) and 3 men ( 15.8 %); mean age 73.2 ± 8.2 years) were included. Treatment was performed after a mean delay of 5.8 months ± 2.9 ( range 1.5-12). Median visual analogue scale significantly improved from 7 preoperatively ( IQR 6-9) to 2 ( IQR 1-5) at 6 months ( p < 0.01). Significant kyphosis reduction ( i.e. ≥ 30 %) was obtained in 94.7 % of cases. Secondary adjacent level fractures ( SALFs) were noted in 21.1 % of cases and were correlated with the importance of the kyphosis reduction. Vertebral augmentation with the SpineJack ® is feasible and seems able to correct major structural deformities in chronic OVCFs. SALFs were noted in a substantial amount of cases. Preventive adjacent vertebroplasty might be useful in patients with several risk factors for SALFs. • Vertebral augmentation with SpineJack ® is effective to correct major structural deformities e.g. height loss and kyphosis. • Successful reduction is reachable with SpineJack ® in chronic ( older than 6 weeks) OVCFs. • Aggressive reduction of major kyphosis might promote SALFs and complementary adjacent vertebroplasties prevent their occurrence.