 Stroke is a leading cause of death in developed countries. Recently , its connection with oral health has been a focus of the medical literature. The aim of this study was therefore to statistically examine the oral health of subjects who previously suffered from stroke and provide a guide for the dental treatment of these patients. Stroke patients at least one year after the stroke episode and age- and sex-matched healthy controls were examined: dental and medical stroke histories were recorded , followed by a detailed orofacial examination. A categorisation into three ` dental ' subgroups of stroke patients was carried out based on their residual symptoms<symptom> , the functional deficiency of limbs , and chewing and swallowing difficulties. Indices quantifying oral hygiene ( OHI-S) , dental status<symptom> explained by the number of decayed , missing , and filled teeth ( DMFT) , periodontal status<symptom> ( CAL , CPITN , Mühlemann index) , and the status<symptom> of prosthetic treatment ( prosthetic index) were assessed. Statistical comparison was performed between the patient and age- and sex-matched control subjects , as well as between subgroups of stroke patients. One hundred two stroke patients and 98 healthy age- and sex-matched control subjects were examined. The oral health and dental status<symptom> of stroke patients was worse compared with the control group. Stroke patients had significantly more decayed ( 2.3 ± 3 vs1 .1 ± 1.8; p = 0.01) and missing ( 19.3 ± 9.5 vs 15.5 ± 9.3; p = 0.005) teeth , but significantly fewer filled ( 3.6 ± 4.7 vs 7.7 ± 5.6; p < 0.001) teeth than did the healthy controls. In stroke patients , clinical attachment loss ( CAL) was double that of the control group ( p < 0.001). A comparison between the subgroups of stroke patients revealed that the most severe findings were in patients who had chewing and swallowing disabilities. According to these results , the combination of risk factors of stroke , residual neurological signs after stroke , and poorer socioeconomic conditions results in poor oral hygiene , poor dental and periodontal conditions , and a lower prosthetic index. Special care and attention should be given to the oral hygiene and dental treatment of such patients , to enable good nourishment.