 Gastrointestinal cancers ( gastric , pancreatic and colorectal) are life-threatening diseases<disease> , which easily spread to peritoneal cavity ( Juhl et al. in Int J Cancer 57:330-335 , 1994; Schneider et al. in Gastroenterology 128:1606-1625 , 2005; Geer and Brennan in Am J Surg 165:68-72 1993). Application of hyperthermal intraperitoneal chemotherapy ( HIPEC) is one of the choices treating these malignancies and prolonging patient survival time. Despite numbers of clinical trials showing positive effects of HIPEC against various types of cancer , the question whether hyperthermia<symptom> significantly potentiate the cytotoxicity of cisplatin remains unanswered. Little information is available on the HIPEC effect at the level of mitochondria. To define the effect of hyperthermia<symptom> ( 40 째C and 43 째C) to cisplatin treated human gastric AGS , pancreatic T3M4 and colorectal Caco-2 cancer cells , we established an in vitro experiment , which mimics clinical HIPEC conditions. Giving the importance of mitochondrial energy metabolism in cancer , we investigated the effect of cisplatin and hyperthermia<symptom> on mitochondrial Complex-I ( glutamate/malate) and complex-II ( succinate) dependent respiratory rates , the coupling of oxidative phosphorylation , the proton permeability of mitochondrial inner membrane and on the integrity of mitochondrial outer membrane in Caco-2 , AGS and T3M4 cancer cell lines. Our main findings are: 1) treatment of cells with cisplatin causes the impairment of mitochondrial functions- the increase in the proton permeability of mitochondrial inner membrane and decrease in the oxidative phosphorylation efficiency in Caco-2 , AGS and T3M4 cancer cells; 2) hyperthermia<symptom> ( 40 째C and 43 째C) increased state 2 respiration<symptom> rate only in AGS cells without any effects on Caco-2 and T3M4 cells; 3) hyperthermia<symptom> in combination with cisplatin does n't enhance cisplatin effect neither in Caco-2 and T3M4 nor in AGS cells. Thus , our results show the different mitochondrial response of gastric AGS , pancreatic T3M4 and colorectal Caco-2 cancer cells to cisplatin or/and hyperthermia<symptom>- treatment. Further studies are needed to find the mechanisms of cell line- specific mitochondrial response to cisplatin and hyperthermia<symptom>.