 Supplementation of combined glutathione ( GSH) with L-citrulline in response to a single bout of resistance exercise has been shown to increase plasma nitric oxide metabolites , nitrite and nitrate and cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP) , which may play a role in muscle protein synthesis. As a result , in response to resistance training ( RT) these responses may establish a role for GSH + L-citrulline to increase muscle mass. This study attempted to determine the effects of an 8-week RT program in conjunction with GSH ( Setria ®) + L-citrulline , L-citrulline-malate , or placebo supplementation on lean mass and its association with muscle strength. The secondary purpose was to assess the safety of such supplementation protocol by assessing clinical chemistry markers. In a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled design , 75 resistance-trained males were randomly assigned to ingest GSH + L-citrulline ( GSH + CIT) , L-citrulline-malate , or cellulose placebo daily while also participating in 8 weeks of RT.. The full dose of each supplement was delivered in capsules that were identical in weight<symptom> , size , shape , and color. Participants completed testing sessions for body composition and muscle strength before and after 4 and 8 weeks of RT and supplementation. Venous blood samples were obtained before and after 8 weeks. Leg press was increased with RT but was not significantly different between groups ( p > 0.05); however , bench press strength was not increased with RT ( p > 0.05). There were no significant changes in total body mass , fat mass , or total body water during 8 weeks of RT and supplementation. Lean mass increased in both GSH + CIT when compared to PLC; however , the increase was significant only after 4 weeks. Lean mass and strength were positively correlated ( p < 0.05) in GSH + CIT , but not CIT-malate or PLC.. Neither RT nor supplementation had any significant effects on blood clinical chemistry variables ( p > 0.05). Compared to PLC , supplementation of GSH + CIT during resistance training increased lean mass after 4 weeks of RT and was positively associated with muscle strength. However , after 8 weeks of RT there were no significant differences in any of the measured variables.