 Even though the efficacy of melodic intonation therapy ( MIT) with persons with aphasia<symptom> ( PWA) has been explored in different languages , the efficacy of MIT with Arabic-speaking PWA has never been explored. Aims: To explore the efficacy of MIT , adapted to Arabic , in promoting the expressive abilities of a 70-year-old Jordanian Arabic-speaking male subject with severe Broca 's aphasia<symptom> 3 months post-onset. Methods: An 8-week MIT therapy programme with tapping ( 1.5 h daily , 6 days a week) was used in a multiple baseline design across two types of trained phrases ( i.e. automatic and self-generated phrases). Outcome measures included accuracy of production of trained ( at the end of each session) and untrained phrases ( at the end of each week). Pre- and post-treatment measures used , were the bilingual aphasia<symptom> test , the American Speech-Language Hearing Association Functional Assessment of Communicative Skills , the communicative effectiveness index and the American Speech and Hearing Association Quality of Communication Life Scale. Accuracy of production for the trained and untrained phrases was also measured 2 weeks and 4 weeks after the treatment programme was finished. Results: The patient , ( MK) , improved his expressive productions<symptom> post-treatment in automatic and self-generated phrases. Automatic phrases exceeded the established 75 % accuracy criterion , whereas the self-generated phrases reached criterion and remained constant at follow-up. Moreover , MK gradually started improving on the generalisation stimuli , once the treatment on the self-generated phrases started and maintained the gains 2 weeks and 4 weeks post-treatment. Conclusion: MIT appears to be a viable treatment option for Jordanian Arabic-speaking persons with Broca 's aphasia<symptom>. However , more research is needed with larger groups of Jordanian Arabic-speaking persons with Broca 's aphasia<symptom> to provide more support to the present findings. Moreover , future studies might focus on the efficacy of MIT with persons with Broca 's aphasia<symptom> from different Arab countries and from countries where Arabic is part of the multicultural structure like South Africa and other countries on the African continent.