 Focal duodenal necrosis<symptom> ( FDN) is an intestinal disease<disease> of egg-laying chickens , characterized by multifocal mucosal erosions in the duodenal loop and proximal jejunum<symptom>. It is currently considered by the Association of Veterinarians in Egg Production and the United States Animal Health Association as one of the top five disease<disease> concerns of the table egg industry in the United States. Previous studies have associated this condition with Clostridium<pathogen> species. The purpose of this study was to investigate the epidemiologic characteristics of table egg layer flocks affected with FDN. An online questionnaire was distributed to commercial layer operations in different states in the United States. Layer farms that had diagnosed FDN within the past 12 mo were surveyed. The questionnaire had 45 questions about management , nutrition , housing , and methods for disease<disease> prevention and control. Thirty-seven surveys were sent and 21 were completed , which represents a response rate of 56.7 %. The survey results showed the presence of FDN in five egg-layer genetic lines or breed crosses of different ages , with most cases reported between 30-39 wk of age. The pullets were cage-reared in all affected flocks and the majority of flocks in production were housed in traditional cages. Most of the FDN-affected flocks received more than 12 different feed formulations from pre-lay to 60 wk of age. Distiller 's dried grain with solubles was a common ingredient added to the feed in the majority of affected flocks , and all flocks were provided with limestone as a calcium source for egg production. Most surveys reported that coccidiosis and roundworm parasitism were not problems in affected flocks in production; however , pests such as flies and rodents were reported as problems in most affected flocks. Additionally , most affected farms never washed feeders , cages , and houses before disinfection , which may not be sufficient to prevent the persistency and transmission of the causative agent of FDN. In conclusion , several management practices that have been associated with enteric disease<disease> , including clostridial-associated enteritis<disease> , were described by the majority of FDN-affected flocks. Additional studies are needed to determine if management and health practices identified in this survey represent risk factors for FDN.