 Retirement is a life transition involving an obligatory change in how people use their time. Because there are strong associations between use of time and health , different changes in time use following retirement may have different impacts on mental health. 105 participants were followed from 6 months before retirement to 12 months after retirement. At each time-point , use of time was quantified using a validated computerised 24-hour recall. Depression<symptom> , anxiety<symptom> and stress were assessed using the Depression<symptom> , Anxiety<symptom> and Stress Scales ( DASS21) , well-being with the Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental<symptom> Well-being Scale ( SWEMWBS) , life satisfaction with the Australian Unity Personal Well-being Index ( AUPWI) , and self-esteem with the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale. Time-use data were analysed using compositional data analysis , which treats the 24-h day as a holistic `` activity composition '' rather than as individual activity domains. Time flow analytics were used to map patterns of change in time use from pre-retirement to post-retirement. Regression analysis was used to determine whether changes in the activity composition were significantly associated with changes in mental health. Compositional isotemporal substitution models were used to illustrate dose-response relationships between changes in time use and conditional changes in mental health for individual activity domains , such as sleep , screen time and physical activity. Following retirement , time no longer spent in work flowed mainly to household chores , sleep , screen time and quiet time ( e.g. reading). Mental health improved overall. Changes in the activity composition were significantly related to conditional changes in DASS21 total score , depression<symptom> , stress , and self-esteem , but not to anxiety<symptom> , well-being or life satisfaction. Replacing work time with physical activity or sleep was associated with positive changes in mental health. Effect sizes for 60-minute substitutions ranged from -0.15 to +0.31. Following retirement , replacing work with physical activity , and to a lesser extent sleep , is associated with better mental health.