 Alzheimer 's disease<disease> ( AD) is a kind of brain disease<disease> that arises due to the aggregation and fibrillation<symptom> of amyloid β-peptides ( Aβ). The peptide Aβ17-42 forms U-shape protofilaments of amyloid mature fibrils by cross-β strands , detected in brain cells of individuals with AD. Targeting the structure of Aβ17-42 and destabilizing its β-strands by natural compounds could be effective in the treatment of AD patients. Therefore , the interaction features of monomeric U-shape Aβ17-42 with natural flavonoids including myricetin , morin and flavone at different mole ratios were comprehensively studied to recognize the mechanism of Aβ monomer instability using molecular dynamics ( MD) simulations. We found that all flavonoids have tendency to interact and destabilize Aβ peptide structure with mole ratio-dependent effects. The interaction free energies of myricetin ( with 6 OHs) and morin ( with 5 OHs) were more negative compared to flavone , although the total binding energies of all flavonoids are favorable and negative. Myricetin , morin and flavone penetrated into the core of the Aβ17-42 and formed self-clusters of Aβ17-42-flavonoid complexes. Analysis of Aβ17-42-flavonoids interactions identified that the hydrophobic interactions related to SASA-dependent energy are weak in all complexes. However , the intermolecular H-bonds are a main binding factor for shifting U-shape rod-like state of Aβ17-42 to globular-like disordered state. Myricetin and morin polyphenols form H-bonds with both peptide 's carbonyl and amine groups whereas flavone makes H-bonds only with amine substitution. As a result , polyphenols are more efficient in destabilizing β-sheet structures of peptide. Accordingly , the natural polyphenolic flavonoids are useful in forming stable Aβ17-42-flavonoid clusters to inhibit Aβ17-42 aggregation and these compounds could be an effective candidate for therapeutically targeting U-shape protofilaments ' monomer in amyloid mature fibrils.