 Extreme climbing where participants perform while knowing that a simple mistake could result in death requires a skill set normally acquired in non-extreme environments. In the ecological dynamics approach to perception and action , skill acquisition involves a process where the existing repertoire of behavioral capabilities ( or coordination<symptom> repertoire) of a learner are destabilized and re-organized through practice-this process can expand the individuals affordance boundaries allowing the individual to explore new environments. Change in coordination<symptom> repertoire has been observed in bi-manual coordination<symptom> and postural regulation tasks , where individuals begin practice using one mode of coordination<symptom> before transitioning to another , more effective , coordination<symptom> mode during practice. However , individuals may also improve through practice without qualitatively reorganizing movement system components-they do not find a new mode of coordination<symptom>. To explain these individual differences during learning ( i.e. , whether or not a new action is discovered) , a key candidate is the existing coordination<symptom> repertoire present prior to practice. In this study , the learning dynamics of body configuration patterns organized with respect to an indoor climbing surface were observed and the existing repertoire of coordination<symptom> evaluated prior to and after practice. Specifically , performance outcomes and movement<symptom> patterns of eight beginners were observed across 42 trials of practice over a 7-week period. A pre- and post-test scanning procedure was used to determine existing patterns of movement coordination<symptom> and the emergence of new movement patterns after the practice period. Data suggested the presence of different learning dynamics by examining trial-to-trial performance in terms of jerk ( an indicator of climbing fluency) , at the individual level of analysis. The different learning dynamics ( identified qualitatively) included: continuous improvement , sudden improvement , and no improvement. Individuals showing sudden improvement appeared to develop a new movement pattern of coordination<symptom> in terms of their capability to climb using new body-wall orientations , whereas those showing continuous improvement did not , they simply improved performance. The individual who did not improve in terms of jerk , improved in terms of distance climbed. We discuss implications for determining and predicting how individual differences can shape learning dynamics and interact with metastable learning design.