  Human rotavirus<pathogen> ( HRV) is a major cause of viral gastroenteritis<disease> in infants; particularly in developing countries where malnutrition is prevalent. Malnutrition perturbs the infant gut microbiota leading to sub-optimal functioning of the immune system and further predisposing infants to enteric<disease> infections<disease>. Therefore , we hypothesized that malnutrition exacerbates rotavirus<pathogen> disease severity in infants. In the present study , we used a neonatal germ free ( GF) piglets transplanted with a two-month-old human infant 's fecal microbiota ( HIFM) on protein deficient and sufficient diets. We report the effects of malnourishment on the HRV infection and the HIFM pig microbiota in feces , intestinal and systemic tissues , using MiSeq 16S gene sequencing ( V4-V5 region). Microbiota analysis indicated that the HIFM transplantation resulted in a microbial composition in pigs similar to that of the original infant feces. This model was then used to understand the interconnections between microbiota diversity , diet , and HRV infection. Post HRV infection , HIFM pigs on the deficient diet had lower body weights , developed more severe<symptom> diarrhea<disease> and increased virus shedding compared to HIFM pigs on sufficient diet. However , HRV induced diarrhea<disease> and shedding was more pronounced in non-colonized GF pigs compared to HIFM pigs on either sufficient or deficient diet , suggesting that the microbiota alone moderated HRV infection. HRV infected pigs on sufficient diet showed increased microbiota diversity in intestinal tissues; whereas , greater diversity was observed in systemic tissues of HRV infected pigs fed with deficient diet. These results suggest that proper nourishment improves the microbiota quality in the intestines , alleviates HRV disease and lower probability of systemic translocation of potential opportunistic pathogens/pathobionts. In conclusion , our findings further support the role for microbiota and proper nutrition in limiting enteric diseases.