  Rice stripe virus ( RSV) belongs to the genus Tenuivirus. It is transmitted by small brown planthoppers in a persistent and circulative-propagative manner and causes rice stripe disease ( RSD). The NS3 protein of RSV , encoded by the viral strand of RNA3 , is a viral suppressor of RNA silencing ( VSR). NS3 plays a significant role in viral<disease> infection<disease> , and NS3-transgenic plants manifest resistance to the virus<pathogen>. The stability and availability of NS3 produced by transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana was investigated by northern blot analysis. The accumulation of virus<pathogen> was detected by western blot analysis. Transcriptome sequencing was used to identify differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) in NS3-transgenic N. benthamiana. When the host plants were inoculated with RSV<pathogen> , symptoms and viral accumulation in NS3-transgenic N. benthamiana were reduced compared with the wild type. Transcriptome analysis identified 2533 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) in the NS3-transgenic N. benthamiana , including 597 upregulated genes and 1936 downregulated genes. These DEGs were classified into three Gene Ontology ( GO) categories and were associated with 43 GO terms. KEGG pathway analysis revealed that these DEGs were involved in pathways associated with ribosomes ( ko03010) , photosynthesis ( ko00195) , photosynthesis-antenna proteins ( ko00196) , and carbon metabolism ( ko01200). More than 70 DEGs were in these four pathways. Twelve DEGs were selected for RT-qPCR verification and subsequent analysis. The results showed that NS3 induced host resistance by affecting host gene expression. NS3 , which plays dual roles in the process of infection , may act as a VSR during RSV<pathogen> infection , and enable viral resistance in transgenic host plants. NS3 from RSV<pathogen> affects the expression of genes associated with ribosomes , photosynthesis , and carbon metabolism in N. benthamiana. This study enhances our understanding of the interactions between VSRs and host plants.