  The properties of the human<pathogen> immunodeficiency<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( HIV<pathogen>) pose serious difficulties for the development of an effective prophylactic vaccine. Here we describe the construction and characterization of recombinant ( r) , replication-competent forms of rhesus monkey rhadinovirus ( RRV) , a gamma-2 herpesvirus<pathogen> , containing a near-full-length ( nfl) genome of the simian immunodeficiency<disease> virus<pathogen> ( SIV). A 306-nucleotide deletion in the pol gene rendered this nfl genome replication-incompetent as a consequence of deletion of the active site of the essential reverse transcriptase enzyme. Three variations were constructed to drive expression of the SIV proteins: one with SIV 's own promoter region , one with a cytomegalovirus ( cmv<pathogen>) immediate-early promoter/enhancer region , and one with an RRV dual promoter ( p26 plus PAN). Following infection of rhesus fibroblasts in culture with these rRRV vectors , synthesis of the early protein Nef and the late structural proteins Gag and Env could be demonstrated. Expression levels of the SIV proteins were highest with the rRRV-SIVcmv-nfl construct. Electron microscopic examination of rhesus fibroblasts infected with rRRV-SIVcmv-nfl revealed numerous budding and mature SIV particles and these infected cells released impressive levels of p27 Gag protein ( > 150 ng/ml) into the cell-free supernatant. The released SIV particles were shown to be incompetent for replication. Monkeys inoculated with rRRV-SIVcmv-nfl became persistently infected , made readily-detectable antibodies against SIV , and developed T-cell responses against all nine SIV gene products. Thus , rRRV expressing a near-full-length SIV genome mimics live-attenuated strains of SIV in several important respects: the infection is persistent; > 95 % of the SIV proteome is naturally expressed; SIV particles are formed; and CD8 + T-cell responses are maintained indefinitely in an effector-differentiated state. Although the magnitude of anti-SIV immune responses in monkeys infected with rRRV-SIVcmv-nfl falls short of what is seen with live-attenuated SIV infection , further experimentation seems warranted.