  Influenza<disease> vaccinations are currently recommended in the care of people with COPD , but these recommendations are based largely on evidence from observational studies , with very few randomised controlled trials ( RCTs) reported. Influenza<disease> infection causes excess morbidity and mortality in people with COPD , but there is also the potential for influenza<disease> vaccination to cause adverse effects , or not to be cost effective. To determine whether influenza<disease> vaccination in people with COPD reduces respiratory illness , reduces mortality , is associated with excess adverse events , and is cost effective. We searched the Cochrane Airways Trials Register , two clinical trials registries , and reference lists of articles. A number of drug companies we contacted also provided references. The latest search was carried out in December 2017. RCTs that compared live or inactivated virus<pathogen> vaccines with placebo , either alone or with another vaccine , in people with COPD. Two review authors independently extracted data. All entries were double-checked. We contacted study authors and drug companies for missing information. We used standard methods expected by Cochrane. We included 11 RCTs with 6750 participants , but only six of these included people with COPD ( 2469 participants). The others were conducted on elderly and high-risk individuals , some of whom had chronic lung disease. Interventions compared with placebo were inactivated virus<pathogen> injections and live attenuated intranasal virus vaccines. Some studies compared intra-muscular inactivated vaccine and intranasal live attenuated vaccine with intra-muscular inactivated vaccine and intranasal placebo. Studies were conducted in the UK , USA and Thailand.Inactivated vaccine reduced the total number of exacerbations per vaccinated participant compared with those who received placebo ( mean difference ( MD) -0.37 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI) -0.64 to -0.11; P = 0.006; two RCTs , 180 participants; low quality evidence). This was due to the reduction in ` late ' exacerbations , occurring after three or four weeks ( MD -0.39 , 95 % CI -0.61 to -0.18; P = 0.0004; two RCTs , 180 participants; low quality evidence). Both in people with COPD , and in older people ( only a minority of whom had COPD) , there were significantly more local adverse reactions in people who had received the vaccine , but the effects were generally mild and transient.There was no evidence of an effect of intranasal live attenuated virus<pathogen> when this was added to inactivated intramuscular vaccination.Two studies evaluating mortality for influenza<disease> vaccine versus placebo were too small to have detected any effect on mortality. However , a large study ( N = 2215) noted that there was no difference in mortality when adding live attenuated virus<pathogen> to inactivated virus<pathogen> vaccination , AUTHORS ' CONCLUSIONS: It appeared , from the limited number of RCTs we were able to include , all of which were more than a decade old , that inactivated vaccine reduced exacerbations in people with COPD. The size of effect was similar to that seen in large observational studies , and was due to a reduction in exacerbations occurring three or more weeks after vaccination , and due to influenza<disease> There was a mild increase in transient local adverse effects with vaccination , but no evidence of an increase in early exacerbations. Addition of live attenuated virus<pathogen> to the inactivated vaccine was not shown to confer additional benefit.