  Leishmania<pathogen> infantum is the causative agent of human visceral leishmaniasis<disease> ( VL) and sporadic human cutaneous leishmaniasis<disease> ( CL) in the Mediterranean region. The genetic variation of the Leishmania<pathogen> parasites may result in different phenotypes that can be associated with the geographical distribution and diversity of the clinical manifestations. The main objective of this study was to explore the genetic polymorphism in L. infantum isolates from human and animal hosts in different regions of Morocco. The intraspecific genetic variability of 40 Moroccan L. infantum MON-1 strains isolated from patients with VL ( n = 31) and CL ( n = 2) and from dogs ( n = 7) was evaluated by PCR-RFLP of nagt , a single-copy gene encoding N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate transferase. For a more complete analysis of L. infantum polymorphism , we included the restriction patterns of nagt from 17 strains available in the literature and patterns determined by in-silico digestion of three sequences from the GenBank database. Moroccan L. infantum strains presented a certain level of genetic diversity and six distinct nagt-RFLP genotypes were identified. Three of the six genotypes were exclusively identified in the Moroccan population of L. infantum: variant M1 ( 15 %) , variant M2 ( 7.5 %) , and variant M3 ( 2.5 %). The most common genotype ( 65 %) , variant 2 ( 2.5 %) , and variant 4 ( 7.5 %) , were previously described in several countries with endemic leishmaniasis<disease> Phylogenetic analysis segregated our L. infantum population into two distinct clusters , whereas variant M2 was clearly distinguished from both cluster I and cluster II. This distribution highlights the degree of genetic variability among the Moroccan L. infantum population. The nagt PCR-RFLP method presented here showed an important genetic heterogeneity among Moroccan L. infantum strains isolated from human and canine reservoirs with 6 genotypes identified. Three of the six Moroccan nagt genotypes , have not been previously described and support the particular genetic diversity of the Moroccan L. infantum population reported in other studies.