  Five species of Plasmodium are known to infect humans. For proper treatment of malaria<disease> , accurate identification of the parasite species is crucial. The current gold standard for malaria<disease> diagnosis is microscopic examination of Giemsa-stained blood smears. Since the parasite species are identified by microscopists who manually search for the parasite-infected red blood cells ( RBCs) , misdiagnosis due to human error tends to occur in case of low parasitaemia or mixed<disease> infection<disease>. Then , molecular methods , such as polymerase chain reaction or loop-mediated isothermal amplification ( LAMP) , are required for conclusive identification of the parasite species. However , since molecular methods are highly sensitive , false-positive results tend to occur due to contamination ( carry over) or the target gene products may be detected even after clearance of the parasites from the patient 's blood. Therefore , accurate detection of parasites themselves by microscopic examination is essential for the definitive diagnosis. Thus , the method of in situ LAMP for the parasites was developed. Red blood cell suspensions , including cultured Plasmodium<pathogen> falciparum<pathogen> , strain 3D7 , infected-RBCs , were dispersed on cyclic olefin copolymer ( COC) plate surfaces rendered hydrophilic by reactive ion-etching treatment using a SAMCO RIE system ( hydrophilic-treated) , followed by standing for 10 min to allow the RBCs to settle down on the plate surface. By rinsing the plate with RPMI 1640 medium , monolayers of RBCs formed on almost the entire plate surface. The plate was then dried with a hair drier. The RBCs were fixed with formalin , followed by permeabilization with Triton X-100. Then , amplification of the P.<pathogen> falciparum<disease> 18S rRNA gene by the LAMP reaction with digoxigenin ( DIG)- labelled dUTP and a specific primer set was performed. Infected RBCs as fluorescence-positive cells with anti-DIG antibodies conjugated with fluorescein using fluorescent microscopy could be detected. The present work shows that the potential of in situ LAMP for the identification of Plasmodium<pathogen> species at the single cell level on hydrophilic-treated COC palates , allowing highly sensitive and accurate malaria<disease> diagnosis. The findings will improve the efficacy of the gold standard method for malaria<disease> diagnosis.