  In West<disease> and Central Africa , there is a need to establish the prevalence of Wuchereria bancrofti in areas that are co-endemic for Loa loa , in order to implement the appropriate strategies to scale-up interventions for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis<disease> ( LF). Due to the risk of severe adverse events ( SAEs) to ivermectin in individuals with high L. loa microfilaraemia , the current strategy recommended by the World Health Organization ( WHO) is twice yearly mass drug administration ( MDA) with albendazole , supplemented by vector control targeting the Anopheles<pathogen> vectors. Defining W. bancrofti prevalence in areas co-endemic with L. loa is complicated by the cross-reactivity of rapid diagnostic immunochromatographic card tests ( ICT) , widely used for LF mapping , in individuals with high L. loa microfilaraemia. This has probably resulted in the overestimation of LF prevalence , triggering the implementation of MDA strategies , which may be unnecessary and wasteful of the limited resources for elimination programme implementation. Here we review the literature and present historical evidence , which uniformly highlight low or no prevalence of W. bancrofti infection and/or clinical LF cases across five Central African countries , in more than 30 different geographical areas covering 280 individual sites and > 22,000 individuals tested within high risk L. loa areas. This highlights the very limited information available on LF prevalence in L. loa areas , and potentially has major policy implications , which could shift the focus towards revised mapping criteria to verify low or no W. bancrofti prevalence in high risk L. loa areas. In this situation , revising the current WHO strategy from MDA , to focus more on ensuring high and effective vector control , through insecticide treated/long-lasting impregnated bednets ( ITNs/LLINs) , integration of point-of-care test-and-treat options into health systems , and consolidating closer links with the malaria<disease> control programme may be a more effective and appropriate use of the limited resources and drug donations available for LF elimination.