  Glycopeptide antibiotics inhibit bacterial cell-wall synthesis , and are important for the treatment of infections caused by multi drug-resistant strains of enterococci , streptococci and staphylococci. The main mechanism by which bacteria resist the action of glycopeptides is by producing a modified cell-wall in which the dipeptide D-Alanine-D-Alanine is substituted by D-Alanine-D-Lactate or D-Alanine-D-Serine. Recently , it has been shown that inorganic phosphate ( Pi) induces hypersensitivity<disease> to vancomycin in Streptomyces coelicolor ( which is highly resistant to the antibiotic in low-Pi media). This finding was surprising because the bacterium<pathogen> possesses the entire set of genes responsible for vancomycin resistance ( VR); including those coding for the histidine kinase/response regulator pair VanS/VanR that activates the system. This work shows that high Pi amounts in the medium hamper the activation of the van promoters and consequently inhibit VR in S. coelicolor; i.e. the repression effect being stronger when basic or acidic forms of the nutrient are used. In addition , this work shows that lysozyme resistance is also highly regulated by the Pi concentration in the medium. At least five different mutations contribute to the overcoming of this repression effect over VR ( but not over lysozyme resistance). Therefore , the interconnection of VR and lysozyme resistance mechanisms might be inexistent or complex. In particular , two kinds of mutant in which Pi control of VR has been lost ( one class expresses the van genes in a constitutive manner; the other retains inducibility by vancomycin) have been isolated and further characterized in this study. Sequencing revealed that the first class of mutation conferred a single amino acid substitution in the second transmembrane helix of the VanS protein; whereas the other class hampered the expression or activity of a putative homolog ( SCO1213) to the staphylococcal GatD protein. Complementation , phenotypic and bioinformatics analyses identified SCO1213 , and its upstream gene ( i.e. murT) , as relevant genetic determinants involved with VR in S. coelicolor. The genomic approach of this study together with other genetic and phenotypic analyses has allowed the identification of the uncharacterized murT-gatD Streptomyces<pathogen> genes and the characterization of their involvement with the Pi control of VR in S. coelicolor.