  Health-risk behaviors contribute to the leading causes of morbidity and mortality among youth and adults in the United States. In addition , significant health disparities exist among demographic subgroups of youth defined by sex , race/ethnicity , and grade in school and between sexual minority and nonsexual minority youth. Population-based data on the most important health-related behaviors at the national , state , and local levels can be used to help monitor the effectiveness of public health interventions designed to protect and promote the health of youth at the national , state , and local levels. September 2016-December 2017. The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System ( YRBSS) monitors six categories of priority health-related behaviors among youth and young adults: 1) behaviors that contribute to unintentional injuries and violence; 2) tobacco use; 3) alcohol and other drug use; 4) sexual behaviors related to unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections ( STIs) , including human<pathogen> immunodeficiency<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( HIV<pathogen>) infection; 5) unhealthy dietary behaviors; and 6) physical inactivity. In addition , YRBSS monitors the prevalence of other health-related behaviors , obesity , and asthma. YRBSS includes a national school-based Youth Risk Behavior Survey ( YRBS) conducted by CDC and state and large urban school district school-based YRBSs conducted by state and local education and health agencies. Starting with the 2015 YRBSS cycle , a question to ascertain sexual identity and a question to ascertain sex of sexual contacts were added to the national YRBS questionnaire and to the standard YRBS questionnaire used by the states and large urban school districts as a starting point for their questionnaires. This report summarizes results from the 2017 national YRBS for 121 health-related behaviors and for obesity , overweight , and asthma by demographic subgroups defined by sex , race/ethnicity , and grade in school and by sexual minority status; updates the numbers of sexual minority students nationwide; and describes overall trends in health-related behaviors during 1991-2017. This reports also summarizes results from 39 state and 21 large urban school district surveys with weighted data for the 2017 YRBSS cycle by sex and sexual minority status ( where available). Results from the 2017 national YRBS indicated that many high school students are engaged in health-risk behaviors associated with the leading causes of death among persons aged 10-24 years in the United States. During the 30 days before the survey , 39.2 % of high school students nationwide ( among the 62.8 % who drove a car or other vehicle during the 30 days before the survey) had texted or e-mailed while driving , 29.8 % reported current alcohol use , and 19.8 % reported current marijuana use. In addition , 14.0 % of students had taken prescription pain medicine without a doctor 's prescription or differently than how a doctor told them to use it one or more times during their life. During the 12 months before the survey , 19.0 % had been bullied on school property and 7.4 % had attempted suicide. Many high school students are engaged in sexual risk behaviors that relate to unintended pregnancies and STIs , including HIV<pathogen> infection. Nationwide , 39.5 % of students had ever had sexual intercourse and 9.7 % had had sexual intercourse with four or more persons during their life. Among currently sexually active students , 53.8 % reported that either they or their partner had used a condom during their last sexual intercourse. Results from the 2017 national YRBS also indicated many high school students are engaged in behaviors associated with chronic<disease> diseases<disease> , such as cardiovascular disease , cancer , and diabetes. Nationwide , 8.8 % of high school students had smoked cigarettes and 13.2 % had used an electronic vapor product on at least 1 day during the 30 days before the survey. Forty-three percent played video or computer games or used a computer for 3 or more hours per day on an average school day for something that was not school work and 15.4 % had not been physically active for a total of at least 60 minutes on at least 1 day during the 7 days before the survey. Further , 14.8 % had obesity and 15.6 % were overweight. The prevalence of most health-related behaviors varies by sex , race/ethnicity , and , particularly , sexual identity and sex of sexual contacts. Specifically , the prevalence of many health-risk behaviors is significantly higher among sexual minority students compared with nonsexual minority students. Nonetheless , analysis of long-term temporal trends indicates that the overall prevalence of most health-risk behaviors has moved in the desired direction. Most high school students cope with the transition from childhood through adolescence to adulthood successfully and become healthy and productive adults. However , this report documents that some subgroups of students defined by sex , race/ethnicity , grade in school , and especially sexual minority status have a higher prevalence of many health-risk behaviors that might place them at risk for unnecessary or premature mortality , morbidity , and social problems ( e.g. , academic failure , poverty , and crime). YRBSS data are used widely to compare the prevalence of health-related behaviors among subpopulations of students; assess trends in health-related behaviors over time; monitor progress toward achieving 21 national health objectives; provide comparable state and large urban school district data; and take public health actions to decrease health-risk behaviors and improve health outcomes among youth. Using this and other reports based on scientifically sound data is important for raising awareness about the prevalence of health-related behaviors among students in grades 9-12 , especially sexual minority students , among decision makers , the public , and a wide variety of agencies and organizations that work with youth. These agencies and organizations , including schools and youth-friendly health care providers , can help facilitate access to critically important education , health care , and high-impact , evidence-based interventions.