  In recent years , the genus Asaia ( Rhodospirillales: Acetobacteraceae) has been isolated from different Anopheles<pathogen> species and presented as a promising tool to combat malaria<disease> This bacterium<pathogen> has unique features such as presence in different organs of mosquitoes ( midgut , salivary glands and reproductive organs) of female and male mosquitoes and vertical and horizontal transmission. These specifications lead to the possibility of introducing Asaia as a robust candidate for malaria<disease> vector control via paratransgenesis technology. Several studies have been performed on the microbiota of Anopheles<pathogen> mosquitoes ( Diptera: Culicidae) in Iran and the Middle<pathogen> East to find a suitable candidate for controlling the malaria<disease> based on paratransgenesis approaches. The present study is the first report of isolation , biochemical and molecular characterization of the genus Asaia within five different Anopheles<pathogen> species which originated from different zoogeographical zones in the south , east , and north of Iran. Mosquitoes originated from field-collected and laboratory-reared colonies of five Anopheles<pathogen> spp.. Adult mosquitoes were anesthetized; their midguts were isolated by dissection , followed by grinding the midgut contents which were then cultured in enrichment broth media and later in CaCO Morphological , biochemical , physiological and molecular results indicated that all isolates are members of the genus Asaia. Contrary to previous opinions , our findings show that Asaia bacteria are present in both insectary-reared colonies and field-collected mosquitoes and can be isolated by simple and specific methods. Furthermore , with respect to the fact that we isolated Asaia within the different Anopheles<pathogen> specimens from distinct climatic and zoogeographical regions , it is promising and may be concluded that species of this genus can tolerate the complicated environmental conditions of the vector-borne diseases endemic regions. Therefore , it can be considered as a promising target in paratransgenesis and vector control programs. However , we suggest that introducing the new technologies such as next generation sequencing and robust in silico approaches may pave the way to find a unique biomarker for rapid and reliable differentiation of the Asaia species.