  Influenza<disease> infects tens of millions of people every year in the USA. Other than notable risk groups , such as children and the elderly , it is difficult to predict what subpopulations are at higher risk of infection. Viral challenge studies , where healthy human volunteers are inoculated with live influenza<disease> virus<pathogen> , provide a unique opportunity to study infection susceptibility. Biomarkers predicting influenza<disease> susceptibility would be useful for identifying risk groups and designing vaccines. We applied cell mixture deconvolution to estimate immune cell proportions from whole blood transcriptome data in four independent influenza<disease> challenge studies. We compared immune cell proportions in the blood between symptomatic shedders and asymptomatic nonshedders across three discovery cohorts prior to influenza<disease> inoculation and tested results in a held-out validation challenge cohort. Natural killer ( NK) cells were significantly lower in symptomatic shedders at baseline in both discovery and validation cohorts. Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ( HSPCs) were higher in symptomatic shedders at baseline in discovery cohorts. Although the HSPCs were higher in symptomatic shedders in the validation cohort , the increase was statistically nonsignificant. We observed that a gene associated with NK cells , KLRD1 , which encodes CD94 , was expressed at lower levels in symptomatic shedders at baseline in discovery and validation cohorts. KLRD1 expression in the blood at baseline negatively correlated with influenza<disease> infection symptom severity. KLRD1 expression 8 h post-infection in the nasal epithelium from a rhinovirus<pathogen> challenge study also negatively correlated with symptom severity. We identified KLRD1-expressing NK cells as a potential biomarker for influenza<disease> susceptibility. Expression of KLRD1 was inversely correlated with symptom severity. Our results support a model where an early response by KLRD1-expressing NK cells may control influenza<disease> infection.