  In a systematic review of the surgical treatment of large incisional hernia sublay repair , the sandwich technique and aponeuroplasty with intraperitoneal mesh displayed the best results. In this systematic review only the sandwich technique , which used the hernia sac as an extension of the posterior and anterior rectus<pathogen> sheath and placement of a non-absorbable mesh in the sublay position , was included. Other modifications of the sandwich technique are published in the literature and were also analyzed in this literature review. A systematic search of the available literature was performed in November 2017 using Medline , PubMed , and the Cochrane Library using the terms `` sandwich technique '' , `` double prosthetic repair '' , `` double mesh intraperitoneal repair '' , and `` component separation technique with double mesh ''. This review is based on 24 relevant publications. Unfortunately , the evidence of the available studies is not very high since only prospective and retrospective case series have been published. There are no comparative studies at all. Therefore , the findings of the published case series must be viewed in a critical light. The published studies report a remarkably low recurrence rate of 0-13 % with a follow-up of 1-7 years. One limitation that must be mentioned here is that in around half of the studies the method of follow-up was not specified and in the remaining cases this was based on clinical examination by the surgical team. This puts into perspective the reported results , which appear to be too favorable given the complex nature of the hernias involved.The major disadvantage of the sandwich technique is a very high rate of wound<disease> complications of up to 68 % , mainly induced by creation of large skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue flaps. It is difficult to evaluate the significance of the various modifications of the `` sandwich technique '' based on the available literature since it includes only case series and no comparative studies. The techniques used are associated with very high wound<disease> complication rates but with only relatively low recurrence rates despite the complexity of the cases involved. This must be verified in studies with a well-designed methodology.