  Using personal protective equipment ( PPE) and transmission-based precautions are primary strategies for reducing the transmission of infectious<disease> agents<disease>. To identify and characterize failures in transmission-based precautions , including PPE use , by health care personnel that could result in self-contamination or transmission during routine , everyday hospital care. This qualitative study involved direct observation inside and outside patient rooms on clinical units from March 1 , 2016 , to November 30 , 2016. Observations occurred in the medical and/or surgical units and intensive care units at an academic medical center and a Veterans Affairs hospital , as well as the emergency department of the university hospital. Trained observers recorded extensive field notes while personnel provided care for patients in precautions for a pathogen transmitted through contact ( eg , Clostridium<pathogen> difficile<pathogen> , methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus<pathogen> aureus<pathogen> or respiratory droplet ( eg , influenza<disease> Specific occurrences involving potential personnel self-contamination were identified through a directed content analysis. These occurrences were further categorized , using a human factors model of human error , as active failures , such as violations , mistakes , or slips. Number and type of failures involving use of transmission-based precautions. In total , 325 room observations were conducted at 2 sites. At site 1 , a total of 280 observations were completed ( 196 in medical/surgical units , 64 in intensive care units , and 20 in emergency departments). At site 2 , there were 45 observations ( 36 in medical/surgical units and 9 in the intensive care unit). Of the total observations , 259 ( 79.7 %) occurred outside and 66 ( 20.3 %) inside the room. Two hundred eighty-three failures were observed , including 102 violations ( deviations from safe operating practices or procedures) , 144 process or procedural mistakes ( failures of intention) , and 37 slips ( failures of execution). Violations involved entering rooms without some or all recommended PPE. Mistakes were frequently observed during PPE removal and encounters with challenging logistical situations , such as badge-enforced computer logins. Slips included touching one 's face or clean areas with contaminated gloves or gowns. Each of these active failures has a substantial likelihood of resulting in self-contamination. The circumstances surrounding failures in precaution practices , however , varied not only across but within the different failure types. Active failures in PPE use and transmission-based precautions , potentially leading to self-contamination , were commonly observed. The factors that contributed to these failures varied widely , suggesting the need for a range of strategies to reduce potential transmission risk during routine hospital care.