  An understanding of mycorrhizal variation , orchid seed germination temperature and the effect of co-occurring plant species could be critical for optimizing conservation translocations of endangered plants with specialized mycorrhizal associations. Focusing on the orchid Thelymitra epipactoides , we isolated mycorrhizal fungi<pathogen> from ten plants within each of three sites; Shallow Sands Woodland ( SSW) , Damp Heathland ( DH) and Coastal Heathland Scrub<disease> ( CHS). Twenty-seven fungal isolates were tested for symbiotic germination under three 24 h temperature cycles: 12 °C for 16 h-16 °C for 8 h , 16 °C for 16 h-24 °C for 8 h or 27 °C constant. Fungi<pathogen> were sequenced using the internal transcribed spacer ( ITS) , nuclear large subunit 1 ( nLSU1) , nLSU2 and mitochondrial large rRNA gene ( mtLSU). Orchids were grown to maturity and co-planted with each of ten associated plant species in a glasshouse experiment with tuber width measured at 12 months after co-planting. Two Tulasnella fungal lineages were isolated and identified by phylogenetic analyses , operational taxonomic unit 1 ( OTU1) and ` T. asymmetrica '. Fungal lineages were specific to sites and did not co-occur. OTU1 ( from the SSW site) germinated seed predominantly at 12-16 °C ( typical of autumn-winter temperature) whereas ` T. asymmetrica ' ( from the DH and CHS sites) germinated seed across all three temperature ranges. There was no difference in the growth of adult orchids germinated with different OTUs. There was a significant reduction in tuber size of T. epipactoides when co-planted with six of the commonly co-occurring plant species. We found that orchid fungal lineages and their germination temperature can change with habitat , and established that translocation sites can be optimized with knowledge of co-occurring plant interactions. For conservation translocations , particularly under a changing climate , we recommend that plants should be grown with mycorrhizal fungi<pathogen> tailored to the recipient site.