  Leptospirosis<disease> is a disease that negatively affects the productive and reproductive indices of ruminants. Sheep are considered highly resistant to infection , although susceptibility may vary among breeds. Thus , the aim of the present study was to analyze the susceptibility between sheep breeds to the experimental infection by leptospires of the Pomona serogroup<pathogen>. Pomona serogroup<pathogen> , Kennewicki serovar<pathogen> strain ( 1 × 107 bacteria) was inoculated via the conjunctival route in 12 sheep divided into two groups , one comprising Santa Inês ewes and the other comprising crossbred sheep. In each group , five ewes were challenged with the bacterial strain and one was used as control. All sheep were monitored for 60 days , during which blood samples were collected for serological diagnosis and urine and vaginal fluid samples for molecular and microbiological analyses. Finally , as ewes were submitted to euthanasia and necropsy<disease> , some tissues of interest were collected for microbiological , molecular , and histopathological diagnoses. The groups were compared regarding the number of positive reactions according to diagnostic tests. All sheep in each group presented antibodies to Leptospira<pathogen> in all serological analyses , except animals of the control group. However the Santa Inês sheep presented higher concentration and duration of the titers , and their positive reactions were detected earlier than those in crossbred sheep. The antibody titers in group A ( median 200 , geometric mean 317.48) were significantly different from the group B ( median 800 , geometric mean 918.96) at D60 post-infection ( P = 0,032). The Santa Inês sheep presented a higher number of positive reactions than did the crossbred sheep in the molecular diagnostic tests. According to the molecular diagnosis , the Santa Inês sheep presented more reactions ( urine and vaginal fluid) compared to crossbred ewes , but there was no predominance in the detection of leptospiral DNA when comparing urine and vaginal fluid results , nor even between the number of positive kidneys and uterus. The Santa Inês sheep presented a higher number of positive bacteriological cultures. No sheep in either group presented alterations in anatomopathological and histopathological findings. Pure-bred sheep may be more susceptible than crossbred sheep to infection by Leptospira<pathogen> sp.. Our findings emphasize the importance of the genital tract as a site of extraurinary infection and indicate the possibility of venereal transmission in the species.