  Adult T‑cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATLL) is a disorder involving human T-cell<disease> leukemia<disease> virus type 1 ( HTLV‑1)- infected T‑cells characterized by increased clonal neoplastic proliferation. PDZ-binding kinase ( PBK) ( also known as T‑lymphokine-activated killer cell-originated protein kinase ( TOPK)) is a serine/threonine kinase expressed in proliferative cells and is phosphorylated during mitosis. In this study , the expression and phosphorylation of PBK/TOPK were examined by western blot analysis and RT‑PCR. We found that PBK/TOPK was upregulated and phosphorylated in HTLV‑1-transformed T‑cell lines and ATLL‑derived T‑cell lines. Notably , CDK1/cyclin B1 , which phosphorylates PBK/TOPK , was overexpressed in these cells. HTLV‑1 infection upregulated PBK/TOPK expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs) in co-culture assays. The potent PBK/TOPK inhibitors , HI‑TOPK‑032 , and fucoidan from brown algae<pathogen> , decreased the proliferation and viability of these cell lines in a dose‑dependent manner. By contrast , the effect of HI‑TOPK‑032 on PBMCs was less pronounced. Treatment with HI‑TOPK‑032 resulted in G1 cell cycle arrest , and decreased CDK6 expression and pRb phosphorylation , which are critical determinants of progression through the G1 phase. In addition , HI‑TOPK‑032 induced apoptosis , as evidenced by morphological changes , the cleavage of poly ( ADP-ribose) polymerase with the activation of caspase‑3 , -8 and -9 , and an increase in the sub‑G1 cell population and APO2.7-positive cells. Moreover , HI‑TOPK‑032 inhibited the expression of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis 2 ( c-IAP2) , X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein ( XIAP) , survivin and myeloid cell leukemia‑1 ( Mcl‑1) , and induced the expression of Bak and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats ( IFIT) 1 , 2 and 3. It is noteworthy that the use of this inhibitor led to the inhibition of the phosphorylation of IκB kinase ( IKK) α , IKKβ , IκBα , phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN) and Akt , and to the decreased protein expression of JunB and JunD , suggesting that PBK/TOPK affects the nuclear factor-κB , Akt and activator protein‑1 signaling pathways. In vivo , the administration of HI‑TOPK‑032 suppressed tumor growth in an ATLL xenograft model. Thus , on the whole , this study on the identification and functional analysis of PBK/TOPK suggests that this kinase is a promising molecular target for ATLL treatment.