  This experiment focuses on the effect of Yunkang oral liquid on abortion<disease> rate , endocrine system and VEGF signal pathway in Clark classical recurrent abortion<disease> model mice. RSA<pathogen> mice were randomly divded into model group , low , middle and high-dose groups and progesterone group. The normal pregnancy mice were included into normal group. Since the first day of pregnancy , the normal group and the RSA<pathogen> model group were given the same dose of distilled water , while low , middle and high-dose groups were given Yunkang oral liquid at the dose of 9 , 18 , 36 mL · kg ¹ · d ⁻¹; progesterone group were given progesterone by 0.039 g · kg ¹ · d ⁻¹. The mice were put to deathat the 15th day of pregnancy , and the embryo loss rate of each group was observed. Serum estradiol ( E ₂) , progesterone ( P) , prolactin ( PRL) , luteinizing hormone ( LH) , follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH) level were tested; the protein expressions of estrogen receptor ( ER) , progesterone receptor ( PR) , prolactin receptor ( PRLR) in decidua and RAS , MAPK , VEGF , VEGFR-2 gene and protein expressions in deciduas were studied. The results showed that middle , high dose Yunkang and progesterone could significantly decrease the embryo loss rate of RSA<pathogen> mice. The levels of FSH , LH , PRL , P and E ₂ in serum in Yunkang and progesterone groups were increased , and the serum levels of FSH , LH , and E ₂ in Yunkang group were higher than those in progesterone group. Western blot analysis showed that Yunkang oral liquid and progesterone can significantly increase the expressions of PRLR , PR in the uterine decidua of RSA<pathogen> mice , and the expression of ER in Yunkang group was higher than that in progesterone group. Western blot and PCR showed that the Yunkang oral liquid and progesterone can significantly increase RAS , MAPK , VEGF , VEGFR-2 gene and protein expressions in the uterine decidua of RSA<pathogen> mice. The results showed that Yunkang oral liquid can effectively reduce the embryo loss rate of RSA<pathogen> model mice , increase the levels of FSH , LH , PRL , P and E ₂ in serum , promote the expressions of PRLR , PR , ER protein in decidua and the RAS , MAPK , VEGF , VEGFR-2 gene and protein expressions in the decidua , improve the vascular remodeling of fetal interface , the endometrial receptivty , the development of decidua and the blastocyst implantation.