  Vertical transmission of Zika<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( ZIKV) leads to infection of neuroprogenitor cells and destruction of brain parenchyma. Recent evidence suggests that the timing of infection as well as host factors may affect vertical transmission. As a result , congenital ZIKV infection may only become clinically apparent in the postnatal period. We sought to develop an outbred mouse model of ZIKV vertical transmission to determine if the timing of gestational ZIKV exposure yields phenotypic differences at birth and through adolescence. We hypothesized that later gestational inoculations would only become apparent in adolescence. To better recapitulate human exposures , timed pregnant Swiss-Webster dams ( n = 15) were subcutaneously inoculated with 1x10 Pups of ZIKV-infected dams infected at e4 and e8 but not e12 were growth restricted ( p < 0.003). Brain weights were significantly smaller at birth ( p = 0.01) for e8 ZIKV-exposed offspring. At 6 weeks of age , biparietal diameters ( BPD) were smaller for all ZIKV exposed males and females ( p < 0.05) , with e8 exposed males smallest by BPD and growth restriction measurements ( weight > 2 SD , p = 0.0007). All pups and adolescent mice were assessed for ZIKV infection by RT-PCR. Analysis of all underweight pups reveled one to be positive for neuronal ZIKV infection by in situ hybridization , while a second moribund animal was diffusely positive at 8 days of age by ZIKV infectivity throughout the brain , kidneys and intestine. These findings demonstrate that postnatal effects of infection occurring at single time points continue to be detrimental to offspring in the postnatal period in a subset of littermates and subject to a window of gestational susceptibility coinciding with placentation. This model recapitulates frequently encountered clinical scenarios in non-endemic regions , including the majority of the U.S. , where travel related exposure occurs in short and well-defined windows of gestation. Our low rate of infection and relatively rare evidence of congenital Zika<disease> syndrome<disease> parallels human population-based data.