  Rates of colonization and infection with carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative pathogens are on the rise , particularly in southeastern European countries , and this is increasingly true in Germany as well. The organisms in question include enterobacteriaceae such as Klebsiella<pathogen> pneumoniae<pathogen> and Escherichia<pathogen> coli and non-fermenting bacteria such as Pseudomonas<pathogen> aeruginosa<pathogen> and Acinetobacter<pathogen> baumannii<pathogen> As the carbapenems have been the gold standard to date for the systemic treatment of serious infections with Gram-negative bacteria , carbapenem resistance presents new and difficult challenges in therapeutic decision-making , particularly because of the high frequency of coresistance. This review is based on pertinent publications retrieved by a selective search in PubMed and on other applicable literature. Multiresistant Gram-negative ( MRGN) pathogens are classified in Germany according to their resistance to four different classes of antibiotics; fluoroquinolones<disease> , piperacillin , third-generation cephalosporins , and carbapenems. Quadruple MRGN pathogens are resistant to all four groups , triple MRGN pathogens to three of them. There are a number of therapeutic alternatives to carbapenems that can be applied with the aid of sensitive microbiological and/or molecular genetic testing. The following antibiotics are often the only ones that can be used to treat quadruple MRGN pathogens: colistin , aminoglycosides , tigecycline , fosfomycin , ceftazidime/avibactam , and ceftolozan/tazobactam. Carbapenems , too , may still be an option in certain situations. There is also evidence that combinations of antibiotics against which the pathogen is resistant individually can some- times be a valid treatment option; these include combinations of colistin with one or two carbapenems. The treatment of severe infection with carbapenem-resistant pathogens should be individualized and carried out in an interdisciplinary framework , in consideration of antibiotic pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in each case. The treat- ment options are based on evidence from in vitro studies , retrospective studies , and case series , which must be interpreted with caution. Randomized clinical trials are needed to test each of the various combined approaches.