  Powassan<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( POWV) , a flavivirus<pathogen> discovered in 1958 , causes sporadic but severe cases of encephalitis<disease> in humans. Since 2007 , the number of human Powassan<disease> cases diagnosed each year in the USA has steadily increased. This is in agreement with predictions that Powassan<disease> cases may increase in North<pathogen> America as a result of increased exposure to infected ticks. However , the increase may also reflect improved diagnostics and reporting among other factors. A scoping review was prioritized to identify and characterize the global literature on POWV. Following an a priori developed protocol , a comprehensive search strategy was implemented. Two reviewers screened titles and abstracts for relevant research and the identified full papers were used to characterize the POWV literature using a predetermined data characterization tool. One hundred and seventy-eight articles were included. The majority of the studies were conducted in North<pathogen> America ( 88.2 %) between 1958 and 2017. Both genotypes of POWV ( Powassan<disease> lineage 1 and Deer Tick virus) were isolated or studied in vitro , in vectors , nonhuman hosts and human populations. To date , POWV has been reported in 147 humans in North<pathogen> America. The virus has also been isolated from five tick species , and several animals have tested positive for exposure to the virus. The relevant articles identified in this review cover the following eight topics: epidemiology ( 123 studies) , pathogenesis ( 66) , surveillance ( 33) , virus characterization ( 22) , POWV transmission ( 8) , diagnostic test accuracy ( 8) , treatment ( 4) and mitigation strategies ( 3). The literature on POWV is relatively small compared with other vector-borne diseases , likely because POWV has not been prioritized due to the small number of severe sporadic human cases. With the projected impact of climate change on tick populations , increases in the number of human cases are expected. It is recommended that future research efforts focus on closing some of the important knowledge gaps identified in this scoping review.