  To evaluate the antibacterial activity , bacterial viability , cytotoxicity , and mechanical/physical properties of a novel methacrylate triclosan-derivative monomer ( TM) incorporated in dental resin composite. TM was synthesized by esterification and , after characterization by FT-IR , was added to an experimental composite. Samples were divided into two groups according to TM presence , i.e. , C1 ( control) and C2 ( C1 + 14.4 % TM). Microbiological properties: Specimens ( C1 and C2) were prepared and placed on bacterial suspensions of Streptococcus<pathogen> mutans<pathogen> Antibacterial activity , MTT , and live/dead bacterial viability were used to test the resin composites. All assays were performed in triplicates. Mechanical properties: Specimens underwent compression ( CS) and flexural strength ( FS) tests conducted in an Instron universal testing machine at a crosshead speed of 0.5 mm/min. Physical properties: Specimens were assessed for Knoop hardness ( KHN) and crosslink density ( CD). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy allowed the degree of conversion ( DC) to be evaluated. Data were subjected to appropriate statistical tests according to data distribution and assay ( p < 0.05). Microbiological properties: C2 showed the lowest biofilm accumulation and the highest membrane-compromised bacteria in the biofilm. Mechanical/physical properties: For CS , FS , KHN , and DC , there was no significant difference between groups C1 and C2; however , significant difference was observed for the CD assay. The triclosan methacrylate reduces bacterial adhesion of S.<pathogen> mutans<pathogen> and decreased the formation of bacterial biofilm without affecting important polymer properties. The triclosan methacrylate incorporated in resin composite could greatly reduce the live bacterial adhesion of S.<pathogen> mutans<pathogen> and decrease the formation of bacterial biofilm without affecting important polymer properties. The resin composites containing triclosan methacrylate could greatly reduce the bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. That might prevent the secondary caries<disease> round the margins of the restorations.