  Heavy metals have harmful effects on health of both ecosystems and organisms to their accumulation ability. Copper ( Cu) is an essential element for organism survival , but EPA considers Cu as a priority pollutant. On the other hand , boron has well-defined biological effects in living organisms including cytoprotection and genoprotection , although borax ( BX) metabolism is poorly described in fish. Moreover , the effects of boron supplementation against Cu-induced hematotoxicity and DNA damage in aquatic organisms are still undetermined. Therefore , the main aim of this study was to provide an overview of the strategy for therapeutic potential of BX against Cu exposure in rainbow<disease> trout , Oncorhynchus<pathogen> mykiss. For this aim , fish were fed with different doses of BX and/or copper ( 1.25 , 2.5 , and 5 mg/kg of BX; 500 and 1000 mg/kg of Cu) for 21 days in pretreatment and combined treatment options. At the end of the treatments ( pre and combined) , the hematological index ( total erythrocytes count ( RBC) , total leucocytes count ( WBC) , hemoglobin ( Hb) , hematocrit ( Hct) , total platelet count ( PLT) , mean cell hemoglobin concentration ( MCHC) , mean cell hemoglobin ( MCH) , mean cell volume ( MCV)) , oxidative DNA damage ( 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine ( 8-OHdG)) , and nuclear abnormalities in blood samples of treated and untreated fish were investigated. The statistically significant ( p < 0.05) and dose-dependent increases in hematological indices , 8-OH-dG level , and rates of nuclear abnormalities were observed after exposure to Cu in both treatment group fish as compared to untreated group. On the contrary , treatments with BX doses alone did not alter these hematological and DNA damage endpoints. Moreover , both pretreatment and combined treatments with BX significantly alleviated Cu-induced hematotoxicity and genotoxicity. In a conclusion , the obtained data firstly revealed that borax exhibited hematoprotective and genoprotective effects against copper-induced toxicity in fish.