  Poliovirus<pathogen> ( PV) , like many positive-strand RNA viruses , subverts the macroautophagy/autophagy pathway to promote its own replication. Here , we investigate whether the virus uses the canonical autophagic signaling complex , consisting of the ULK1/2 kinases , ATG13 , RB1CC1 , and ATG101 , to activate autophagy. We find that the virus sends autophagic signals independent of the ULK1 complex , and that the members of the autophagic complex are not required for normal levels of viral replication. We also show that the SQSTM1/p62 receptor protein is not degraded in a conventional manner during infection , but is likely cleaved in a manner similar to that shown for coxsackievirus<pathogen> B3. This means that SQSTM1 , normally used to monitor autophagic degradation , can not be used to accurately monitor degradation during poliovirus<pathogen> infection. In fact , autophagic degradation may be affected by the loss of SQSTM1 at the same time as autophagic signals are being sent. Finally , we demonstrate that ULK1 and ULK2 protein levels are greatly reduced during PV infection , and ATG13 , RB1CC1 , and ATG101 protein levels are reduced as well. Surprisingly , autophagic signaling appears to increase as ULK1 levels decrease. Overexpression of wild-type or dominant-negative ULK1 constructs does not affect virus replication , indicating that ULK1 degradation may be a side effect of the ULK1-independent signaling mechanism used by PV , inducing complex instability. This demonstration of ULK1-independent autophagic signaling is novel and leads to a model by which the virus is signaling to generate autophagosomes downstream of ULK1 , while at the same time , cleaving cargo receptors , which may affect cargo loading and autophagic degradative flux. Our data suggest that PV has a finely-tuned relationship with the autophagic machinery , generating autophagosomes without using the primary autophagy signaling pathway. ACTB- actin beta; ATG13- autophagy related 13; ATG14- autophagy related 14; ATG101- autophagy related 101; BECN1- beclin 1; CVB3- coxsackievirus<pathogen> B3; DMV- double-membraned vesicles; EM- electron microscopy; EMCV- encephalomyocarditis virus; EV-71- enterovirus<pathogen> 71; FMDV- foot and mouth<disease> disease<disease> virus<pathogen>; GFP- green fluorescent protein; MAP1LC3B/LC3B- microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MOI- multiplicity of infection; MTOR- mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PIK3C3- phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PRKAA2- protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; PSMG1- proteasome assembly chaperone 1; PSMG2- proteasome assembly chaperone 2PV- poliovirus<pathogen>; RB1CC1- RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; SQSTM1- sequestosome 1; ULK1- unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; ULK2- unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2; WIPI1- WD repeat domain , phosphoinositide interacting 1.