  The freshwater snail Physella acuta was selected to expand the perspective of comparative snail immunology. Analysis of Physella acuta , belonging to the Physidae , taxonomic sister family to Planorbidae , affords family-level comparison of immune features characterized from Biomphalaria glabrata<pathogen> , the model snail often used to interpret general gastropod immunity. To capture constitutive and induced immune sequences , transcriptomes of an individual Physella acuta snail , 12 h post injection with bacteria ( Gram-/ +) and one sham-exposed snail were recorded with 454 pyrosequencing. Assembly yielded a combined reference transcriptome containing 24,288 transcripts. Additionally , genomic Illumina reads were obtained ( ∼ 15-fold coverage). Recovery of transcripts for two macin-like antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs) , 12 aplysianins , four LBP/BPIs and three physalysins indicated that Physella acuta shares a similar organization of antimicrobial defenses with Biomphalaria glabrata<pathogen> , contrasting a modest AMP arsenal with a diverse set of antimicrobial proteins. The lack of predicted transmembrane domains in all seven Physella acuta PGRP transcripts supports the notion that gastropods do not employ cell-bound PGRP receptors , different from ecdysozoan invertebrates yet similar to mammals ( vertebrate deuterostomes). The well-documented sequence diversification by Biomphalaria glabrata<pathogen> FREPs ( immune lectins comprising immunoglobulin superfamily domains and fibrinogen domains) , resulting from somatic mutations of a large FREP gene family is hypothesized to be unique to Planorbidae; Physella acuta revealed just two bonafide FREP genes and these were not diversified. Furthermore , the flatworm parasite Echinostoma paraensei , confirmed here to infect both snail species , did not evoke from Physella acuta the abundant expression of FREP proteins at 2 , 4 and 8 days post exposure that was previously observed from Biomphalaria glabrata<pathogen>. The Physella acuta reference transcriptome also revealed 24 unique transcripts encoding proteins consisting of a single fibrinogen-related domain ( FReDs) , with a short N-terminal sequence encoding either a signal peptide , transmembrane domain or no predicted features. The Physella acuta FReDs are candidate immune genes based on implication of similar sequences in immunity of bivalve molluscs<disease>. Overall , comparative analysis of snails of sister families elucidated the potential for taxon-specific immune features and investigation of strategically selected species will provide a more comprehensive view of gastropod immunity.