  A nanoparticle-doped adhesive that can be controlled with magnetic forces was recently developed to deliver drugs to the pulp and improve adhesive penetration into dentin. However , it did not have bactericidal and remineralization abilities. The objectives of this study were to: ( 1) develop a magnetic nanoparticle-containing adhesive with dimethylaminohexadecyl methacrylate ( DMAHDM) , amorphous calcium phosphate nanoparticles ( NACP) and magnetic nanoparticles ( MNP); and ( 2) investigate the effects on dentin bond strength , calcium ( Ca) and phosphate ( P) ion release and anti-biofilm properties. MNP , DMAHDM and NACP were mixed into Scotchbond SBMP at 2 % , 5 % and 20 % by mass , respectively. Two types of magnetic nanoparticles were used: acrylate-functionalized iron nanoparticles ( AINPs); and iron oxide nanoparticles ( IONPs). Each type was added into the resin at 1 % by mass. Dentin bonding was performed with a magnetic force application for 3 min , provided by a commercial cube-shaped magnet. Dentin shear bond strengths were measured. Streptococcus<pathogen> mutans<pathogen> biofilms were grown on resins , and metabolic activity , lactic acid and colony-forming units ( CFU) were determined. Ca and P ion concentrations in , and pH of biofilm culture medium were measured. Magnetic nanoparticle-containing adhesive using magnetic force increased the dentin shear bond strength by 59 % over SBMP Control ( p < 0.05). Adding DMAHDM and NACP did not adversely affect the dentin bond strength ( p > 0.05). The adhesive with MNP+DMAHDM+NACP reduced the S.<pathogen> mutans<pathogen> biofilm CFU by 4 logs. For the adhesive with NACP , the biofilm medium became a Ca and P ion reservoir. The biofilm culture medium of the magnetic nanoparticle-containing adhesive with NACP had a safe pH of 6.9 , while the biofilm medium of commercial adhesive had a cariogenic pH of 4.5. Magnetic nanoparticle-containing adhesive with DMAHDM and NACP under a magnetic force yielded much greater dentin bond strength than commercial control. The novel adhesive reduced biofilm CFU by 4 logs and increased the biofilm pH from a cariogenic pH 4.5-6.9 , and therefore is promising to enhance the resin-tooth bond , strengthen tooth structures , and suppress secondary caries<disease> at the restoration margins.