  House dust mites are an unsurpassed cause of atopic sensitization and allergic illness throughout the world. The major allergenic dust mites Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus , Dermatophagoides farinae , Euroglyphus maynei , and Blomia tropicalis<pathogen> are eight-legged members of the Arachnid class. Their approximately 3-month lifespan comprises egg , larval , protonymph , tritonymph , and adult stages , with adults , about one fourth to one third of a millimeter in size , being at the threshold of visibility. The geographic and seasonal distributions of dust mites are determined by their need for adequate humidity , while their distribution within substrates is further determined by their avoidance of light. By contacting the epithelium of the eyes , nose , lower airways , skin , and gut , the allergen-containing particles of dust mites can induce sensitization and atopic symptoms in those organs. Various mite allergens , contained primarily in mite fecal particles but also in shed mite exoskeletons and decaying mite body fragments , have properties that include proteolytic activity , homology with the lipopolysaccharide-binding component of Toll-like receptor 4 , homology with other invertebrate tropomyosins , and chitin-cleaving and chitin-binding activity. Mite proteases have direct epithelial effects including the breaching of tight junctions and the stimulation of protease-activated receptors , the latter inducing pruritus , epithelial dysfunction , and cytokine release. Other components , including chitin , unmethylated mite and bacterial DNA , and endotoxin , activate pattern recognition receptors of the innate immune system and act as adjuvants promoting sensitization to mite and other allergens. Clinical conditions resulting from mite sensitization and exposure include rhinitis , sinusitis<disease> , conjunctivitis<disease> , asthma , and atopic dermatitis<disease>. Systemic allergy symptoms can also occur from the ingestion of cross-reacting invertebrates , such as shrimp<disease> or snail , or from the accidental ingestion of mite-contaminated foods. Beyond their direct importance as a major allergen source , an understanding of dust mites leads to insights into the nature of atopy and of allergic sensitization in general.