  Neurotensin , substance P , and insulin have been demonstrated to improve wound<disease> healing in vivo. However , the mechanism behind their effect is still not fully understood. This study investigates the effects leading to enhanced scratch closure by these peptides in vitro. The skin keratinocyte cell line , HaCaT , was used to test scratch closure effects of the peptides and alterations of cytokine levels. HUVEC cells were used to test the angiogenic effect of the peptides. Furthermore , clinical isolates of Staphylococcus<pathogen> lugdunensis<pathogen> were used to examine the potential antimicrobial activity of each peptide. Our results demonstrate that neurotensin , substance P , and insulin had significant migratory effects in scratch assays were neurotensin had the lowest effect. Furthermore , we investigated use of the peptides in combination. When substance P was used in combination with neurotensin , the cell migratory capacity was decreased , and the peptides showed a negative correlation ( r = -0.298 , P < .001). Neurotensin and insulin significantly increased levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 ( P < .001) secreted from white blood cells , whereas substance P showed a tendency. Interestingly , neurotensin increased the level of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 significantly compared to substance P ( P < .01). Additionally , the peptides decreased TNFα mRNA levels ( P < .001) in HaCaT cells , whereas only neurotensin and insulin decreased IL-8 mRNA ( P < .001) but had no significant effect on IL-6 mRNA levels. Surprisingly , substance P increased IL-6 mRNA 9-fold ( P < .001). Furthermore , we demonstrate that the peptides increased angiogenesis in the HUVEC cells ( P < .001). Finally , S.<pathogen> lugdunensis<pathogen> isolates were not susceptible to the peptides. We demonstrate that the peptides worked differently on HaCaT cells , but substance P acted differently than neurotensin on cytokine levels expression as well as on migration of HaCaT cells. On the contrary , neurotensin and insulin worked similarly. All of these aspects are crucial for proper wound<disease> healing , and the results suggest multiple mechanisms for wound-healing properties of these peptides.