  Recognizing child sexual abuse ( CSA) in children is difficult , as there can be many hurdles in the assessment of alleged CSA. With this paper , we try to improve the recognition of CSA by discussing: ( 1) the difficulties regarding this matter and ( 2) the diagnostic evaluation of alleged CSA , combining both practical clinical recommendations based on recent research. Children are restrained to disclose CSA due to various reasons , such as fears , shame , and linguistic or verbal limitations. Associations between CSA and urogenital or gastrointestinal symptoms , internalizing and externalizing behavioral problems , post-traumatic stress symptoms , and atypical sexual behavior in children have been reported. However , these symptoms are non-specific for CSA. The majority of sexually abused children do not display signs of penetrative trauma at anogenital examination. Diagnosing a STI in a child can indicate CSA. However , other transmission routes ( e.g. , vertical transmission , auto-inoculation) need to be considered as well. The assessment consists of medical interview and child interview ( parents and child separate and together) with special attention to the child 's development and behavior ( problems) , psychosocial situation and physical complaints , the child 's mental health , and the child 's trauma history; anogenital examination should be done in all cases of alleged CSA. The examination should be documented by photo or video graphically. Recent research suggests that videography may be the preferred method , and testing on STIs. The assessment should be done multidisciplinary by experienced professionals. Health-care professionals who care for children need to know how child protective agencies and law enforcement are organized. In case there are concerns about a child 's safety , the appropriate authorities should be alarmed. What is Known: • Sexual abuse in children often remains unrecognized in the majority of cases. What is New: • Research suggests that videographic documentation is preferred above photographic documentation for anogenital examination; observations of children 's behavioral reactions during examinations might be valuable in the evaluation of suspected sexual abuse; nucleic acid amplification testing can be used on vaginal swabs or urine samples for chlamydia<pathogen> and gonorrhea<disease> the CRIES-13 and the CAPS-CA can be used to assess trauma-symptoms in children after sexual abuse.