  The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptors ( NOD-like receptors , NLRs) can regulate the innate immune process and is an important part of inflammatory body. In this study , we use transcriptome sequencing and the rapid amplification of cDNA ends approach to identify a novel NLRP gene in Apostichopus japonicus<pathogen>. We designated the gene as AjNLRP10. The full-length of AjNLRP10 is 4509 bp. The putative open reading frame comprising 3489 bp encodes a polypeptide with 1162 amino acid residues. The predicted molecular mass of AjNLRP10 is 132.87 kDa and its theoretical pI is 5.60. AjNLRP10 comprises a signal peptide with two Ig superfamily ( IgSF) domains and a NACHT ( NAIP ( neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein) , CIITA ( MHC class II transcription activator) , HET-E ( incompatibility locus protein from Podospora anserina) and TP1 ( telomerase-associated protein)) domain. Spatial distribution expression analysis detected AjNLRP10 in all of the tissues tested , but with higher expression in the coelomocytes , medium expression in the intestine and respiratory tree , and slightly weaker expression in the body wall , tube feet , and longitudinal muscle. The expression levels of AjNLRP10 in the respiratory tree and intestines of sea cucumbers with skin ulceration syndrome<disease> were increased by 4-fold and 2.7-fold compared with those in healthy sea cucumbers , respectively. We investigated expression profiles of AjCasepase-1 ( Cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinase-1) and AjMMP37 ( mitochondrial protein-37) after AjNLRP10 knock-down and discovered that AjCasepase-1 was raised by 2.60-fold and AjMMP37 was raised by 3.84-fold. The study showed that AjNLRP10 has inhibitory effect in the immune process. In conclusion , this study showed that the AjNLRP10 protein found in the sea cucumber involved with the innate immune responses against bacterial infection. It has a similar structure and biological function to that in other organisms , where it appears to be involved with these results provide insights into the innate immune mechanism in the sea cucumber as well as suggesting new strategies for disease prevention , molecular therapy , and the development of novel drugs for sea cucumbers.