  Background The combination of combined active antiretroviral therapy ( cART) with chemotherapy in the treatment of lymphoma in human<pathogen> immunodeficiency<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( HIV<pathogen>)- positive patients has improved the overall survival of these patients. However , drug-drug interactions between antineoplastic agents and the antiretroviral agents non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NNRTIs) and protease inhibitors ( PIs) can occur by influencing the activity of the CYP3A4 enzyme. So far , little is known about the clinical relevance of this interaction: the effect on the efficacy and toxicity of the chemotherapy. Also , there is no general consensus which cART is preferable in combination with antineoplastic drugs. Objective To compare PI-based with NNRTI-based cART on the efficacy and toxicity of chemotherapy in lymphoma patients. Setting The Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis , located in Amsterdam , The Netherlands. Method A retrospective observational cohort study including all patients with HIV<pathogen> and lymphoma over a 10-year period. Clinical outcome ( response to chemotherapy and survival) and toxicity of chemotherapy ( renal , hepatic and bone<disease> marrow toxicity as well as dose reduction , treatment delay and discontinuation) was compared in patients with PI based and NNRTI-based cART. Response to chemotherapy and survival. Results Patients using PI-based cART ( n = 22) had a significantly lower 1 year survival compared to NNRTI-based cART ( n = 21). No significant differences were observed in reaching complete remission after chemotherapy. No overall significant differences in toxicity and discontinuation of the chemotherapy were observed. However , there was a trend towards more severe bone-marrow toxicity in patients with PI-based cART. In addition , patients with PI-based cART received earlier dose-reduction and treatment delay , indicating increased toxicity in PI-treated patients. Conclusion This retrospective study shows that PI-based cART is inferior in combination with chemotherapy to NNRTI-based cART: a lower 1 year survival is observed and dose-reduction and treatment delay occur earlier , possibly based on an earlier onset of toxicity.