  The use of closed containment ( CCS) or semi-closed containment systems ( S-CCS) for Atlantic<disease> salmon Salmo<pathogen> salar<pathogen> aquaculture is under evaluation in Norway. One such system is the Preline S-CCS , a floating raceway system that pumps water from 35 meters depth creating a constant current through the system. Exposing fish to moderate water currents is considered aerobic exercise and it is often perceived as positive for fish welfare , growth , food utilization , muscle development and cardiac health. The present study compared fish reared in the Preline S-CCS and in a reference open pen. Samples were taken in fresh water before being transferred to the seawater systems and after 1 , 2 and 4 months in seawater and analysed for growth , mortality , muscle development and plasma insulin-like growth factor I ( IGF-I) levels. Moreover , gene transcription were determined in the skeletal muscle ( igf-I , insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor a ( igf1ra) and insulin-like growth factor 1 binding protein 1a ( igf1bp1a)) and cardiac transcription factors ( myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2C ( mef2c) , gata4 and vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf)). While the results suggest that post-smolts in Preline S-CCS were smaller than reference fish , fish from Preline S-CCS have less accumulated mortality at the end of the experiment and showed 2.44 times more small muscle fibres than the control group fish after 4 months in seawater. These results confirmed what was previously observed in the 2nd generation of Preline. Similar levels of big muscle fibres between Preline S-CCS and reference suggest a similar hypertrophy of muscle fibres even with lower IGF-I expression in the Preline S-CCS. Cardiac gene transcription suggests cardiac hypertrophy was observed after 4 months in seawater in the Preline S-CCS group. Altogether , Preline S-CCS is a promising technology able to produce more robust S.<pathogen> salar<pathogen> with a faster growth and lower mortality in the subsequent standard open cage system growth period. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.