 The identification of distinctive and overlapping features of anxiety and depression remains an important scientific problem. Currently, the literature does not allow to determine stable similarities and differences in the use of cognitive emotion regulation strategies ( CERS<ORGANIZATION> ) in anxiety and depression, especially concerning the adaptive strategies. Consequently, the aim of this study was to identify the overlapping and distinctive patterns of CERS<ORGANIZATION> use in the recently proposed types of anxiety and depression in a general population. In this dimensional approach, types of anxiety and depression are considered as personality types and distinguished based on their specific structural composition and functional role ( reactive or regulative ) in stimulation processing. 1,632 participants from a representative sample completed the Anxiety<ORGANIZATION> and Depression Questionnaire<ORGANIZATION> ( measuring the Arousal<ORGANIZATION> and Apprehension Types<ORGANIZATION> of anxiety and the Valence<ORGANIZATION> and Anhedonic Types<PERSON> of depression ) and the Cognitive Emotion Regulation Questionnaire<ORGANIZATION>. Regression analyses were conducted with the affective types as predictors. The co-occurrence of the types was accounted for in order to examine their independent relationships with the CERS<ORGANIZATION>. We found that reactive arousal anxiety was not related to any strategies, while regulative apprehension anxiety primarily predicted the use of rumination, which is presumably related to the type 's cognitive structural components. The strategy specific to reactive valence depression was other-blame ( as predicted by the high negative affect in its structure ), and the regulative, most structurally complex anhedonic depression predicted the use of the largest number of strategies, including the adaptive ones. The relationships between the types of depression and self-blame and refocus on planning were moderated by sex but the effects were small. These findings fit into the current trend of exploring the shared and specific features of anxiety and depression, which might facilitate their differentiation by identifying CERS that are characteristic for the specific types. This information can be used for supporting diagnosis and targeting selected strategies in therapy both in clinical and non-clinical populations.