 Children<GPE> and adolescents with long-term physical conditions are at increased risk of psychological problems, particularly anxiety and depression, and they have limited access to evidence-based treatment for these issues. Biofeedback interventions may be useful for treating symptoms of both psychological and physical conditions. A systematic review of studies of biofeedback interventions that addressed anxiety or depression in this population was undertaken via MEDLINE<ORGANIZATION>, EMBASE<ORGANIZATION>, PsycINFO<ORGANIZATION>, CINAHL<ORGANIZATION> and the Cochrane Central<ORGANIZATION> Register of Controlled Trials<ORGANIZATION> databases. Primary outcomes included changes in anxiety and depression symptoms and 'caseness '. Secondary outcomes included changes in symptoms of the associated physical condition and acceptability of the biofeedback intervention. Of 1876 identified citations, 9 studies ( 4 RCTs<ORGANIZATION>, 5 non-RCTs ; of which all measured changes in anxiety and 3 of which measured changes in depression ) were included in the final analysis and involved participants aged 8-25 years with a range of long-term physical conditions. Due<PERSON> to the heterogeneity of study design and reporting, risk of bias was judged as unclear for all studies and meta-analysis of findings was not undertaken. Within the identified sample, multiple modalities of biofeedback including heart rate variability ( HRV<ORGANIZATION> ), biofeedback assisted relaxation therapy and electroencephalography were found to be effective in reducing symptoms of anxiety. HRV<ORGANIZATION> was also found to be effective in reducing symptoms of depression in two studies. A range of modalities was effective in improving symptoms of long-term physical conditions. Two studies that assessed acceptability provided generally positive feedback. There is currently limited evidence to support the use of biofeedback interventions for addressing anxiety and depression in children and adolescents with long-term physical conditions. Although promising, further research using more stringent methodology and reporting is required before biofeedback interventions can be recommended for clinical use instead or in addition to existing evidence-based modalities of treatment.