 The number of new psychoactive substances ( NPS<ORGANIZATION> ) available is constantly increasing, making it difficult for toxicology laboratories to keep screening methods up to date. Full scan high-resolution mass spectrometry ( HRMS<ORGANIZATION> ) is a versatile technique which allows for progressive updating of spectral databases to increase the scope of screening. It also allows for retrospective screening of data-specifically, reprocessing of data files using an updated spectral database without the need for re-extraction or reanalysis.The coronial case reported here illustrates the application of retrospective processing of HRMS<ORGANIZATION> data in the detection of emerging NPS<ORGANIZATION>. A 28-year-old male with a history of illicit drug use was found deceased at home. Initial routine screening of the post-mortem peripheral blood identified only methylamphetamine, amphetamine and trace amounts of lorazepam. A compound with an accurate mass and isotope ratio consistent with the opioid AH-7921 was also detected in the liquid chromatography ( LC ) -HRMS screen ; however ; the retention time and mass spectrum did not match the library. Further investigation confirmed the compound to be U-47700, another opioid and structural isomer of AH-7921. Several months later, after additional NPS<ORGANIZATION> had been added to the in-house HRMS<ORGANIZATION> database, retrospective screening of the HRMS<ORGANIZATION> data was performed, revealing the presence of designer benzodiazepines, diclazepam and flubromazepam as well as the psychedelic drug 2,5-dimethoxy-4-chloroamphetamine ( DOC<ORGANIZATION> ). Quantitative analysis gave the following results in peripheral post-mortem blood: U-47700 ( 330 μg/L ), diclazepam ( 70 μg/L ), flubromazepam ( 10 μg/L ), methylamphetamine ( 290 μg/L ) and amphetamine ( 150 μg/L ) ( DOC<ORGANIZATION> not quantitated ). These substances, along with lorazepam and etizolam, were also confirmed in the post-mortem urine and an investigation into blood and urinary metabolites was carried out. All analyses were performed using the same LC-quadrupole-time of flight method. The cause of death was aspiration ( of gastric content into airways and lungs ) due to mixed drug toxicity.