 The complex interactions and overlapping symptoms of comorbid posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD<ORGANIZATION> ) and mild traumatic brain injury ( mTBI<ORGANIZATION> ) induced by an explosive blast-wave have become a focus of attention in recent years, making clinical distinction and effective intervention difficult. Because dysregulation of the HPA-axis is thought to underlie trauma-related ( psycho ) pathology, we evaluated both the endogenous corticosterone response and the efficacy of exogenous hydrocortisone treatment provided shortly after blast-exposure. We employed a controlled experimental blast-wave paradigm in which non-anesthetized animals were exposed to visual, auditory, olfactory, and tactile effects of an explosive blast-wave produced by exploding a thin copper wire. Endogenous corticosterone concentrations were evaluated at different time points ( before, and 3-h, 5-h and 17 days ) after blast-exposure. Subsequently, the efficacy of exogenous hydrocortisone ( 25 mg·kg-1 or 125 mg·kg-1 ) injected intraperitoneal 1-h after exposure was compared to a similarly timed saline injection. Validated cognitive and behavioral tests were used to assess both PTSD- and mTBI-phenotypes on days 7-14 following the blast. Retrospective analysis revealed that animals demonstrating the PTSD-phenotype exhibited a significantly blunted endogenous corticosterone response to the blast compared to all other groups. Moreover, a single 125 mg·kg-1 dose of hydrocortisone administered 1-h after exposure significantly reduced the occurrence of the PTSD-phenotype. Hydrocortisone<PERSON> treatment did not have a similar effect in the mTBI-phenotype. Results of this study indicate that an inadequate corticosteroid response following blast exposure increases risk for PTSD-phenotype, and corticosteroid treatment is a potential clinical intervention for attenuating PTSD<ORGANIZATION>. The differences in patterns of physiological and therapeutic response between PTSD- and mTBI-phenotypes lend credence to the retrospective behavioral and cognitive classification criteria we designed, and is in keeping with the assumption that mTBI- and PTSD-phenotypes may reflect distinct underlying biological and clinical profiles.