 This study aimed: ( i ) to determine adherence rates to oral anticoagulants in atrial fibrillation patients with a high risk for thromboembolic events post-radiofrequency ablation ; ( ii ) to evaluate patients ' knowledge and perceptions towards oral anticoagulants ; and ( iii ) to explore the impact of patients ' knowledge and perceptions on treatment adherence. Atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia associated with an increased risk of developing thromboembolic events such as stroke. Although adherence to oral anticoagulants is crucial to prevent such complications, the relationship between adherence, knowledge and patient perceptions is poorly understood in patients with atrial fibrillation at high risk for thromboembolic events after radiofrequency ablation. A cross-sectional observational survey study was performed in a single center. The levels of adherence, knowledge and perception towards oral anticoagulants were assessed using the 8-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale<PERSON>, Knowledge of Oral Anticoagulation Tool<ORGANIZATION>, Perception<ORGANIZATION> of Anticoagulant<ORGANIZATION> Treatment Questionnaire and Benefit-Risk Perception Tool, respectively. Results from these self-reported tools were analyzed descriptively. A multivariable binary logistic regression model was used to identify factors associated with levels of adequate adherence. Adequate<ORGANIZATION> treatment adherence was found in three-quarters of patients. The total mean knowledge score was low. Participants expressed high ease of use and low burden of treatment. Higher total knowledge and satisfaction scores were significant factors associated with higher levels of adherence. There remains a huge unmet need to follow-up and educate patients with atrial fibrillation, focusing on good knowledge and correct perception of the advantages and disadvantages of oral anticoagulants. Our results suggest that increased knowledge and satisfaction rates might have a positive impact on adherence to oral anticoagulants. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.