 Our aim was to retrospectively investigate the frequency and outcome of large-volume iodinated contrast medium ( CM ) extravasation in our institution and to compare our management protocol to current practice. Institutional review board approval was obtained, and informed consent was waived because the study was retrospective. From January 2008 to September 2016, radiological examinations with intravenous non-ionic iodinated CM administration were performed in 67,129 patients. Contrast medium extravasation events on CT scans and intravenous pyelograms but not on angiograms were included. All data were collected prospectively and stratified according to age, injection method ( manual vs auto-injection ), prevention of extravasation by various means ( including intercom alarm ), management of extravasation ( routine application of silver sulfadiazine ointment, clobetasol propionate cream, and damp gauze at room temperature ), etc. RESULTS: The incidence of large-volume CM extravasation was very low ( 0.04 % [ 27/67,129 ] overall ; 0.03 % related to manual injection [ age range, 59-92 years ; mean, 75.4 years ], and 0.045 % related to auto-injection [ age range, 36-86 years ; mean, 65.8 years ] ). The CM<ORGANIZATION> extravasation volume in majority of patients was 20-40 ml in 5 of 9 patients ( 55.6 % ) in the manual injection group and 14 of 18 ( 77.8 % ) in the auto-injection group. Swelling and pain were the most common symptoms. No patient developed severe signs or needed surgical intervention. Results show a very low incidence of large-volume CM extravasation without severe complications or sequelae. The casual effect between our protocols and good outcome can not be scrutinised thoroughly because the study lacks a control group and is retrospective. • The incidence of large-volume contrast medium extravasation ( ≥20 ml ) was 0.04 %. • No patient needed surgical intervention, and most recovered within 7 days. • Each element of our management protocol contributed to good outcome.