 Endoscopic<GPE> resection of large colorectal lesions is well reported and is the first line of treatment for all noninvasive colorectal neoplasms in many centers, but little is known about the outcomes of endoscopic resection of truly massive colorectal lesions ≥8 cm. We report on the outcomes of endoscopic resection for massive ( ≥8 cm ) colorectal adenomas and compare the outcomes with resection of large ( 2.0-7.9 cm ) lesions. This was a retrospective study. The study was conducted in a tertiary referral unit for interventional endoscopy. A total of 435 endoscopic resections of large colorectal polyps ( ≥2 cm ) were included, of which 96 were ≥8 cm. Outcomes<PERSON> included initial successful resection, complications, recurrence, surgery, and hospital admission. Endoscopic resection was successful for 91 of 96 massive lesions ( ≥8 cm ). Mean size was 10.1 cm ( range, 8-16 cm ). A total of 75 % had previous attempts at resection or heavy manipulation before referral. Thirty two were resected using endoscopic submucosal dissection or hybrid endoscopic submucosal dissection and the rest using piecemeal endoscopic mucosal resection. No patients required surgery for a perforation. Five patients had postprocedural bleeding. There were 25 recurrences: 2 were treated with transanal endoscopic microsurgery, 2 with right hemicolectomy, and the rest with endoscopic resection. Compared with patients with large lesions, more patients with massive adenomas had complications ( 19.8 % versus 3.3 % ), required admission ( 39.6 % versus 11.0 % ), developed recurrence ( 30.8 % versus 9.9 % ), or required surgery for recurrence ( 5.0 % versus 0.8 % ). This was a retrospective study. Endoscopic resection of massive colorectal adenomas ≥8 cm is achievable with few significant complications, and the majority of patients avoid surgery. Systematic assessment is required to appropriately select patients for endoscopic resection, which should be performed in specialist units. See Video Abstract<PERSON> at http: //links.lww.com/DCR/A653.