  Although Germany 's acute care for stroke patients already has a good reputation , continuous follow-up care is still not widely available , a problem originating in the strict separation of inpatient and outpatient care. This gap in the German health care system does not just lead to patients ' potential readmission to inpatient care and compromise the sustainability of what they have accomplished during medical rehabilitation; it also places a burden on caregivers. To illustrate the current procedures on follow-up care of stroke patients in Germany , a systematic literature search was conducted to gather all available evidence. Research articles in the English or German language were searched between 2007 and 2017. Different study designs ranging from non-experimental descriptive studies , expert reports and opinions were included and categorised by two independent researchers. Relevant data was electronically searched through international and national databases and incorporated in a summary grid to investigate research outcomes and realise a narrative synthesis. A literature search was conducted to identify all relevant information on how current follow-up care is carried out and evaluated in Germany. We identified no systematic reviews on this topic , but included a total of 18 publications of various original studies , reviews and expert opinions. Included study populations also differed in either: experts , caregivers or stroke patients , including their viewpoints on the outpatient care situation of stroke patients; to capture their need for assistance or to investigate caregivers need and use for assistance. So far there is no standardised follow-up care in Germany , but this review reveals that multidisciplinary cooperation within occupational groups in outpatient rehabilitation is a key item that can influence and improve the follow-up care of stroke patients. This review was conducted to provide a broadly based overview of the current follow-up care of stroke patients in Germany. Both the new implementation of a standardised , discharge service that supports early support , to be initiated this year and numerous approaches are promising steps into the right direction to close the follow-up gap in German health care provision.