  Multiple lines of evidence indicate that androgens , such as testosterone , modulate the mesocorticolimbic system and executive function. This review integrates neuroanatomical , molecular biological , neurochemical , and behavioral studies to highlight how endogenous and exogenous androgens alter behaviors , such as behavioral flexibility , decision making , and risk taking. First , we briefly review the neuroanatomy of the mesocorticolimbic system , which mediates executive function , with a focus on the ventral tegmental area ( VTA) , nucleus accumbens ( NAc) , medial prefrontal cortex ( mPFC) , and orbitofrontal cortex ( OFC). Second , we present evidence that androgen receptors ( AR) and other steroid receptors are expressed in the mesocorticolimbic system. Using sensitive immunohistochemistry and quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qPCR) techniques , ARs are detected in the VTA , NAc , mPFC , and OFC. Third , we describe recent evidence for local androgens ( `` neuroandrogens '') in the mesocorticolimbic system. Steroidogenic enzymes are expressed in mesocorticolimbic regions. Furthermore , following long-term gonadectomy , testosterone is nondetectable in the blood but detectable in the mesocorticolimbic system , using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. However , the physiological relevance of neuroandrogens remains unknown. Fourth , we review how anabolic-androgenic steroids ( AAS) influence the mesocorticolimbic system. Fifth , we describe how androgens modulate the neurochemistry and structure of the mesocorticolimbic system , particularly with regard to dopaminergic signaling. Finally , we discuss evidence that androgens influence executive functions , including the effects of androgen deprivation therapy and AAS. Taken together , the evidence indicates that androgens are critical modulators of executive function. Similar to dopamine signaling , there might be optimal levels of androgen signaling within the mesocorticolimbic system for executive functioning. Future studies should examine the regulation and functions of neurosteroids in the mesocorticolimbic system , as well as the potential deleterious and enduring effects of AAS use.