  This study investigated the effect of adding haptic information to the control of posture<symptom> , as well as comparing the effect of both the `` light touch '' ( LT) and `` anchor system '' ( AS) paradigms on postural sway. Additionally , it compared the effect of location and number of points of contact to the control of posture<symptom> in young adults. The location consisted of using the anchors tied to the finger and held by the hands , and , for LT , the fingertip. For the number of points of contact , participants used two hands , and then separately the dominant hand , and the non-dominant hand , for both anchor and LT paradigms. Participants stood upright with feet-together and in tandem position while performing tasks that combined the use of anchors and LT , points of contact ( hand grip and finger) , and number of points of contact ( two hands and one hand). In this study , the anchors consist of holding in each hand a flexible cable with the other end attached to the ground. The LT consists of slightly touching a rigid surface with the tip of the index finger. The results showed , first , that the anchors improved postural control less than did the LT. Second , they revealed that holding the anchors with the hands or with them tied to the fingertip resulted in a similar reduction in postural sway only in the tandem position. For the feet-together position , the anchors tied to the fingertip were ineffective. Similarly , the use of one or two hands did not affect the contribution of the anchors. However , using two hands in the LT condition was more effective than was one hand. Third , our results showed the presence of a temporal delay between force and center-of-pressure ( COP) for the anchors , only in the AP direction with feet-together. In conclusion , overall , the anchors were less effective in reducing postural sway than was the LT. The anchors attached to fingertips were as effective as the hand-held anchors in the tandem position , yet ineffective during foot-together standing. Force-COP timing explains reduced postural sway with LT but not for the anchor; hence , exploratory and supra-postural components may be involved.