  NK-4 is the main component of the antiallergic drug Lumin , which has been in popular usage since the early 1950s. In this study , we examined whether NK-4 exerts a regulatory effect on the activation and effector function of Th2 cells. NK-4 inhibited IL-4 production by anti-CD3ε mAb-stimulated BALB/c mouse spleen cells , whereas NK-4 had little effect on IFN-γ production. IL-4 and IL-5 secretion by anti-CD3ε mAb- or antigen-stimulated Th2 cells ( D10.G4 .1) was abrogated by NK-4 without affecting cell numbers , whereas IFN-γ secretion by activated Th1 cells was unchanged. Mechanistic analysis revealed that NK-4 inhibited mRNA expression of the Th2-associated transcription factors GATA-3 and NFATc1 in anti-CD3ε mAb-stimulated D10.G4 .1 cells. Regarding the regulation of Th2 cell effector functions , NK-4 inhibited the secretion of eotaxin and thymus and activation-regulated chemokine ( TARC) by normal human dermal fibroblasts in response to IL-4 and/or TNF-α. NK-4 achieved TARC attenuation comparable to what is observed with suplatast tosilate , an antiallergic drug that selectively inhibits Th2 cytokine production , at 14-fold lower concentrations of suplatast tosilate. Dexamethasone increased TARC production by 2.2- to 2.6-fold of control cultures. NK-4 successfully inhibited the STAT6 signaling pathway , suggesting a potential mechanism for down-regulating chemokines expression. In addition , NK-4 abrogated IL-4-driven modulation of cytokine production profile in human monocytic THP-1 cells from proinflammatory to anti-inflammatory response , as seen in the inverted ratio of TNF-α to IL-10 produced in response to LPS. These results suggest that NK-4 could prevent IL-4-driven polarization to alternatively activated macrophages , which are proposed to have pathogenic roles in allergic asthma. The importance of Th2 cytokines and chemokines in the development and progression of type 2 inflammatory disorders has been highlighted by recent advance in our understanding the immunological mechanism underlying allergic disease. Our results support the use of NK-4 as a reasonable therapeutic option to alleviate Th2-mediated allergic