  Smoking tobacco , drinking alcohol , and chewing betel quid are health-risk behaviors for several diseases , such as cancer , cardiovascular disease , and diabetes , with severe impacts on health. However , health care providers often have limited time to assess clients ' behaviors regarding smoking tobacco , drinking alcohol , and chewing betel quid and intervene , if needed. The objective of this study was to develop a Web-based survey system; determine the rates of tobacco-smoking , alcohol-drinking , and betel-quid-chewing behaviors; and estimate the efficiency of the system ( time to complete the survey). Patients and their family members or friends were recruited from gastrointestinal medical-surgical , otolaryngology , orthopedics , and rehabilitation clinics or wards at a medical center in northern Taiwan. Data for this descriptive , cross-sectional study were extracted from a large series of research studies. A Web-based survey system was developed using a Linux , Apache , MySQL , PHP stack solution. The Web survey was set up to include four questionnaires: the Chinese-version Fagerstrom Tolerance Questionnaire , the Chinese-version Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test , the Betel Nut Dependency Scale , and a sociodemographic form with several chronic<disease> diseases<disease>. After the participants completed the survey , the system automatically calculated their score , categorized their risk level for each behavior , and immediately presented and explained their results. The system also recorded the time each participant took to complete the survey. Of 782 patient participants , 29.6 % were addicted to nicotine , 13.3 % were hazardous , harmful , or dependent alcohol drinkers , and 1.5 % were dependent on chewing betel quid. Of 425 family or friend participants , 19.8 % were addicted to nicotine , 5.6 % were hazardous , harmful , or dependent alcohol drinkers , and 0.9 % were dependent on chewing betel quid. Regarding the mean time to complete the survey , patients took 7.9 minutes ( SD 3.0; range 3-20) and family members or friends took 7.7 minutes ( SD 2.8; range 3-18). Most of the participants completed the survey within 5-10 minutes. The Web-based survey was easy to self-administer. Health care providers can use this Web-based survey system to save time in assessing these risk behaviors in clinical settings. All smokers had mild-to-severe nicotine addiction , and 5.6 % -12.3 % of patients and their family members or friends were at risk of alcohol dependence. Considering that these three behaviors , particularly in combination , dramatically increase the risk of esophageal cancer , appropriate and convenient interventions are necessary for preserving public health in Taiwan.