  Sex differences are important epidemiological factors that impact in the frequency and severity of infectious<disease> diseases<disease>. A clear sexual dimorphism in bacterial infections has been reported in both humans and animal models. Nevertheless , the molecular mechanisms involved in this gender bias are just starting to be elucidated. In the present article , we aim to review the available data in the literature that report bacterial infections presenting a clear sexual dimorphism , without considering behavioral and social factors. The sexual dimorphism in bacterial infections has been mainly attributed to the differential levels of sex hormones between males and females , as well as to genetic factors. In general , males are more susceptible to gastrointestinal and respiratory bacterial<disease> diseases<disease> and sepsis<disease> , while females are more susceptible to genitourinary tract bacterial infections. However , these incidences depend on the population evaluated , animal model and the bacterial species. Female protection against bacterial infections and the associated complications is assumed to be due to the pro-inflammatory effect of estradiol , while male susceptibility to those infections is associated with the testosterone-mediated immune suppression , probably via their specific receptors. Recent studies indicate that the protective effect of estradiol depends on the estrogen receptor subtype and the specific tissue compartment involved in the bacterial insult , suggesting that tissue-specific expression of particular sex steroid receptors contributes to the susceptibility to bacterial infections. Furthermore , this gender bias also depends on the effects of sex hormones on specific bacterial species. Finally , since a large number of genes related to immune functions are located on the X chromosome , X-linked mosaicism confers a highly polymorphic gene expression program that allows women to respond with a more expanded immune repertoire as compared with men. Notwithstanding there is increasing evidence that confirms the sexual dimorphism in certain bacterial infections and the molecular mechanisms associated , further studies are required to clarify conflicting data and to determine the role of specific hormone receptors involved in the gender bias of bacterial infections , as well as their potential as therapeutic targets.