  Pupil light reflex ( PLR) has been widely used as a method for evaluating parasympathetic activity. The first aim of the present study is to develop a PLR measurement using a computer screen set-up and compare its results with the PLR generated by a more conventional setup using light-emitting diode ( LED). The parasympathetic nervous system , which is known to control the ` rest and digest ' response of the human body , is considered to be associated with daily life fatigue<symptom>. However , only few studies have attempted to test the relationship between self-reported daily fatigue<symptom> and physiological measurement of the parasympathetic nervous system. Therefore , the second aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between daily-life fatigue<symptom> , assessed using the Need for Recovery scale , and parasympathetic activity , as indicated by the PLR parameters. A pilot study was conducted first to develop a PLR measurement set-up using a computer screen. PLRs evoked by light stimuli with different characteristics were recorded to confirm the influence of light intensity , flash duration , and color on the PLRs evoked by the system. In the subsequent experimental study , we recorded the PLR of 25 adult participants to light flashes generated by the screen set-up as well as by a conventional LED set-up. PLR parameters relating to parasympathetic and sympathetic activity were calculated from the pupil responses. We tested the split-half reliability across two consecutive blocks of trials , and the relationships between the parameters of PLRs evoked by the two set-ups. Participants rated their need for recovery prior to the PLR recordings. PLR parameters acquired in the screen and LED set-ups showed good reliability for amplitude related parameters. The PLRs evoked by both set-ups were consistent , but showed systematic differences in absolute values of all parameters. Additionally , higher need for recovery was associated with faster and larger constriction of the PLR. This study assessed the PLR generated by a computer screen and the PLR generated by a LED. The good reliability within set-ups and the consistency between the PLRs evoked by the set-ups indicate that both systems provides a valid way to evoke the PLR. A higher need for recovery was associated with faster and larger constricting PLRs , suggesting increased levels of parasympathetic nervous system activity in people experiencing higher levels of need for recovery on a daily basis.