  Argan oil is traditionally produced by cold pressing in South-western Morocco where rural population uses it as edible oil as well as for its therapeutic properties which give them in counterpart valuable income. Given the economical interest of this oil , several attempts of fraudulency have been registered in the world global market leading to loss of authenticity. Our purpose is to launch a program of Tunisian Argan oil valorization since trees from this species have been introduced sixty years ago in Tunisia. The first step was thus to characterize the physicochemical properties and determine the chemical composition of Tunisian Argan oil in order to assess its quality. Physicochemical parameters of oil quality were determined according to the international standard protocols. Fatty acid content analysis of Argan oils was performed by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrophotometry. A comparative study was realized among Tunisian , Moroccan and Algerian samples differing also by their extraction procedure. The impact of geographical localisation on the fatty acids composition was studied by statistical and modeling Bayesian analyses. Physicochemical parameters analysis showed interestingly that Tunisian Argan oil could be classified as extra virgin oil. Argan oil is mainly composed by unsaturated fatty acids ( 80 %) , mainly oleic and linoleic acid ( linoleic acid was positively influenced by the geographical localization ( r = 0.899 , p = 0.038) and the P/S index ( r = 0.987 , p = 0.002)) followed by saturated fatty acids ( 20 %) with other beneficial compounds from the unsaponifiable fraction like polyphenols and carotenoids. Together with fatty acid content , these minor components are likely to be responsible for its nutraceutical properties and beneficial effects. Tunisian Argan oil displayed valuable qualitative parameters proving its competitiveness in comparison with Moroccan and Algerian oils , and could be therefore considered as extra virgin edible oil for nutraceutical purposes as well as for cosmetic use.