  Oncolytic viruses are currently experiencing accelerated development in several laboratories worldwide , with some forty-seven clinical trials currently recruiting. Many oncolytic viruses combine targeted cytotoxicity to cancer cells with a proinflammatory cell lysis. Due to their additional potential to express immunomodulatory transgenes , they are also often known as oncolytic viral vaccines. However , several types of oncolytic viruses are human-specific and the lack of suitable immune-competent animal models complicates biologically relevant evaluation of their vaccine potential. This is a particular challenge for group B adenoviruses , which fail to infect even those immunocompetent animal model systems identified as semi-permissive for type 5 adenovirus<pathogen>. Here , we aim to develop a murine cell line capable of supporting replication of a group B oncolytic adenovirus<pathogen> , enadenotucirev ( EnAd) , for incorporation into a syngeneic immunocompetent animal model to explore the oncolytic vaccine potential of group B oncolytic viruses. Transgenic murine cell lines were infected with EnAd expressing GFP transgene under replication-independent or- dependent promoters. Virus mRNA expression , genome replication , and late protein expression were determined by qRT-PCR , qPCR , and immunoblotting , respectively. We also use Balb/c immune-competent mice to determine the tumourogenicity and infectivity of transgenic murine cell lines. Our results show that a broad range of human carcinoma cells will support EnAd replication , but not murine carcinoma cells. Murine cells can be readily modified to express surface human CD46 , one of the receptors for group B adenoviruses , allowing receptor-mediated uptake of EnAd particles into the murine cells and expression of CMV promoter-driven transgenes. Although the early E1A mRNA was expressed in murine cells at levels similar to human cells , adenovirus<pathogen> E2B and Fibre mRNA expression levels were hampered and few virus genomes were produced. Unlike previous reports on group C adenoviruses , trans-complementation of group B adenoviruses by co-infection with mouse adenovirus<pathogen> 1 did not rescue replication. A panel of group B adenoviruses expressing individual mouse adenovirus<pathogen> 1 genes were also unable to rescue EnAd replication. Together , these results indicate that there may be major differences in the early stages of replication of group C and B adenoviruses in murine cells , and that the block to the life cycle of B adenoviruses in murine cells occurs in the early stage of virus replication , perhaps reflecting poor activity of Ad11p E1A in murine cells.