  Nerve cells produce electrical impulses ( `` spikes '') through the coordinated opening and closing of ion channels. Markov processes with voltage-dependent transition rates capture the stochasticity of spike generation at the cost of complex , time-consuming simulations. Schmandt and Galán introduced a novel method , based on the stochastic shielding approximation , as a fast , accurate method for generating approximate sample paths with excellent first and second moment agreement to exact stochastic simulations. We previously analyzed the mathematical basis for the method 's remarkable accuracy , and showed that for models with a Gaussian noise approximation , the stationary variance of the occupancy at each vertex in the ion channel state graph could be written as a sum of distinct contributions from each edge in the graph. We extend this analysis to arbitrary discrete population models with first-order kinetics. The resulting decomposition allows us to rank the `` importance '' of each edge 's contribution to the variance of the current under stationary conditions. In most cases , transitions between open ( conducting) and closed ( non-conducting) states make the greatest contributions to the variance , but there are exceptions. In a 5-state model of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor , at low agonist concentration , a pair of `` hidden '' transitions ( between two closed states) makes a greater contribution to the variance than any of the open-closed transitions. We exhaustively investigate this `` edge importance reversal '' phenomenon in simplified 3-state models , and obtain an exact formula for the contribution of each edge to the variance of the open state. Two conditions contribute to reversals: the opening rate should be faster than all other rates in the system , and the closed state leading to the opening rate should be sparsely occupied. When edge importance reversal occurs , current fluctuations are dominated by a slow noise component arising from the hidden transitions.