  Elderly patients are vulnerable to adverse drug reactions ( ADRs). Drug-related readmissions ( DRRs) can be a major consequence of ADR. Therefore , this study aimed to investigate the effects of a ward-based , comprehensive pharmaceutical care service on the occurrence of DRRs as the endpoint in dependent-living elderly patients. A randomized , controlled trial was performed at a German University Hospital. Patients fulfilling the following criteria were eligible: admission to a cooperating ward , existing drug therapy at admission , 65 years of age and older , home-care or nursing home residents in ambulatory care , and a minimum hospital stay of three days. Patients received either standard care ( control group) or pharmaceutical care ( intervention group). Follow-up consultations were conducted for each patient at 1 , 8 , 26 , and 52 weeks after discharge. The time to DRR was defined as the primary outcome measure and was analysed using the log-rank test. The Cox-proportional hazard model was used for risk factor analysis. Sixty patients ( n = 31 intervention group , n = 29 control group) participated in the study. For patients in the intervention group , the median time to DRR was prolonged; however , the level of statistical significance was not reached ( log-rank test P = 0.068; HR = 3.28 , P = 0.086). When the risk factors ` age ' or ` length of stay on the ward ' were added to the Cox proportional hazard model , patients in the control group exhibited a significantly higher risk of experiencing a DRR than patients of the intervention group ( HR = 4.62; P = 0.028 including age and HR = 5.76; P = 0.033 including length of stay on the ward). Our findings demonstrate the successful implementation of ward-based , comprehensive pharmaceutical care for dependent-living elderly. Despite a low participation rate , which led to an underpowered study , the results provide a preliminary efficacy signal and effect size estimates to power a definitive trial. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT01578525 , prospectively registered April 13 , 2012.