  The Ottawa Ankle Rules , Ottawa Knee Rule , and Canadian C-Spine Rule-together known as The Ottawa Rules-are a set of internationally validated clinical decision rules developed to decrease unnecessary diagnostic imaging in the emergency department. In this study , we sought to develop and evaluate the use of a mobile app version of The Ottawa Rules. The primary objective of this study was to determine acceptability of The Ottawa Rules app among emergency department clinicians. The secondary objective was to evaluate the effect of publicity efforts on uptake of The Ottawa Rules app. The Ottawa Rules app was developed and publicly released for free on iOS and Android operating systems in April 2016. Local and national news and academic media coverage coincided with app release. This study was conducted at a large tertiary trauma care center in Ottawa , Canada. The study was advertised through posters and electronically by email. Emergency department clinicians were approached in person to enroll via in-app consent for a 1-month study during which time they were encouraged to use the app when evaluating patients with suspected knee , foot , or neck injuries. A 23-question survey was administered at the end of the study period via email to determine self-reported frequency , perceived ease of use of the app , and participant Technology Readiness Index scores. A total of 108 emergency department clinicians completed the study including 42 nurses , 33 residents , 20 attending physicians , and 13 medical students completing emergency department rotations. The median Technology Readiness Index for this group was 3.56 , indicating a moderate degree of openness for technological adoption. The majority of survey respondents indicated favorable receptivity to the app including finding it helpful to applying the rules ( 73/108 , 67.6 %) , that they would recommend the app to colleagues ( 81/108 , 75.0 %) , and that they would continue using the app ( 73/108 , 67.6 %). Feedback from study participants highlighted a desire for access to more clinical decision rules and a higher degree of interactivity of the app. Between April 21 , 2016 , and June 1 , 2017 , The Ottawa Rules app was downloaded approximately 4000 times across 89 countries. We have found The Ottawa Rules app to be an effective means to disseminate the Ottawa Ankle Rules , Ottawa Knee Rule , and Canadian C-Spine Rule among all levels of emergency department clinicians. We have been successful in monitoring uptake and access of the rules in the app as a result of our publicity efforts. Mobile technology can be leveraged to improve the accessibility of clinical decision tools to health professionals.