  Vitamin K was originally discovered as a cofactor required to activate clotting factors and has recently been shown to play a key role in the regulation of soft tissue calcification. This property of vitamin K has led to an increased interest in novel methods for accurate vitamin K detection. Molecularly Imprinted Polymers ( MIPs) could offer a solution , as they have been used as synthetic receptors in a large variety of biomimetic sensors for the detection of similar molecules over the past few decades , because of their robust nature and remarkable selectivity. In this article , the authors introduce a novel imprinting approach to create a MIP that is able to selectively rebind vitamin K ₁. As the native structure of the vitamin does not allow for imprinting , an alternative imprinting strategy was developed , using the synthetic compound menadione ( vitamin K ₃) as a template. Target rebinding was analyzed by means of UV-visible ( UV-VIS) spectroscopy and two custom-made thermal readout techniques. This analysis reveals that the MIP-based sensor reacts to an increasing concentration of both menadione and vitamin K ₁. The Limit of Detection ( LoD) for both compounds was established at 700 nM for the Heat Transfer Method ( HTM) , while the optimized readout approach , Thermal Wave Transport Analysis ( TWTA) , displayed an increased sensitivity with a LoD of 200 nM. The sensor seems to react to a lesser extent to Vitamin E , the analogue under study. To further demonstrate its potential application in biochemical research , the sensor was used to measure the absorption of vitamin K in blood serum after taking vitamin K supplements. By employing a gradual enrichment strategy , the sensor was able to detect the difference between baseline and peak absorption samples and was able to quantify the vitamin K concentration in good agreement with a validation experiment using High-Performance Liquid Chromatography ( HPLC). In this way , the authors provide a first proof of principle for a low-cost , straightforward , and label-free vitamin K sensor.