  High lipid content of oocytes and embryos in domestic animals is one of the well-known factors associated with poor cryosurvival. Herein , we wanted to determine whether the use of delipidated estrous sheep serum during in vitro maturation ( IVM) of ovine oocytes reduces the cytoplasmic lipid droplets content and improves embryo development and cryotolerance after vitrification. Cumulus oocytes complexes ( COCs) were matured in vitro for 24 h in medium supplemented with whole or delipidated estrous sheep serum prior to vitrification. Neutral lipid present in lipid droplets of COCs , cleavage rate , embryo development rate on Day 6 and Day 8 , and hatching rate on Day 8 , were compared among experimental groups. Endoplasmic reticulum stress genes were evaluated in in vitro matured COCs under different lipid conditions prior to vitrification. The lipid droplets ' content ( mean fluorescence intensity) of oocytes cultured with IVM media supplemented with delipidated serum was lower than COCs matured with whole serum ( 7.6 ± 1.7 vs. 22.8 ± 5.0 arbitrary units , respectively; P < 0.05). Despite IVM treatment , oocytes subjected to vitrification showed impaired competence compared with the non-vitrified groups ( P < 0.05). No significant differences in embryo production were observed in non-vitrified COCs after maturation in delipidated or whole serum ( 33.4 ± 4.9 vs 31.9 ± 4.2). COCs matured in delipidated serum and subjected to vitrification showed increased expression of ATF4 , ATF6 , GRP78 , and CHOP10 genes ( ER stress markers). Collectively , our results demonstrate that although supplementation of IVM medium with delipidated estrous sheep serum reduces the presence of cytoplasmic lipid droplets in oocytes after maturation , oocyte cryotolerance is not improved. Notably , the expression of genes associated with the unfolded protein response ( UPR) was increased in COCs , with fewer lipid droplets subjected to vitrification , suggesting that oocyte cryopreservation is associated with ER stress and activation of adaptive responses.