  Animal domestication gives rise to gradual changes at the genomic level through selection in populations. Selective sweeps have been traced in the genomes of many animal species , including humans , cattle , and dogs. However , little is known regarding positional candidate genes and genomic regions that exhibit signatures of selection in domestic horses. In addition , an understanding of the genetic processes underlying horse domestication , especially the origin of Chinese native populations , is still lacking. In our study , we generated whole genome sequences from 4 Chinese native horses and combined them with 48 publicly available full genome sequences , from which 15341213 high-quality unique single-nucleotide polymorphism variants were identified. Kazakh and Lichuan horses are 2 typical Asian native breeds that were formed in Kazakh or Northwest China and South China , respectively. We detected 1390 loss-of-function ( LoF) variants in protein-coding genes , and gene ontology ( GO) enrichment analysis revealed that some LoF-affected genes were overrepresented in GO terms related to the immune response. Bayesian clustering , distance analysis , and principal component analysis demonstrated that the population structure of these breeds largely reflected weak geographic patterns. Kazakh and Lichuan horses were assigned to the same lineage with other Asian native breeds , in agreement with previous studies on the genetic origin of Chinese domestic horses. We applied the composite likelihood ratio method to scan for genomic regions showing signals of recent selection in the horse genome. A total of 1052 genomic windows of 10 kB , corresponding to 933 distinct core regions , significantly exceeded neutral simulations. The GO enrichment analysis revealed that the genes under selective sweeps were overrepresented with GO terms , including `` negative regulation of canonical Wnt signaling pathway , '' `` muscle contraction , '' and `` axon guidance. '' Frequent exercise training in domestic horses may have resulted in changes in the expression of genes related to metabolism , muscle structure , and the nervous system.