  Knowledge about developmental theories is important for experts or specialists working with children following normal development and children who have various kinds of dysfunction , in order to better understand what happens with processes associated with motor behavior. In this article , we have explored how theories of development and learning can be used to understand processes associated with motor behavior. A probabilistic perspective emphasizes that the changes taking place in the development is a result of interaction: structural changes in the nervous system leading to changes in function and behavior and opposite , functional changes resulting in changes in structure. This bidirectional interaction between biological and experiential aspects is a continuous process which can not be reduced to either organism or environment. Dynamical systems theory ( DST) emphasizes that it is the interaction between the person , the environment , and the task that changes how our movements are , also in terms of how we develop and learn new movements. The interplay between these factors will , over time , lead to changes in motor development. The importance of experience is central to Edelman 's theory of neuronal group selection ( NGST). Activation of the nervous system increases the connections between certain areas of the brain , and the selection processes in the brain are a result of enhancement of neural connections involved in a `` successful '' motion. The central nervous system adapts its structure and function in response to internal and external influences , and hence neural plasticity is a prerequisite for learning and development. We argue that Edelman 's approach supports the theory of specificity of learning. From the perspectives of probabilistic epigenesis , DST , and NGST , we can see that being physically active and having the opportunity to get different movement experiences are of great significance for promoting motor development and learning. A variation of purposeful or rewarding physical activity in a variety of contexts will provide individual opportunities for changes of behavior in terms of both quantitative and qualitative changes in motor development.