  Prolonged breath holding results in hypoxemia<symptom> and hypercapnia. Compensatory mechanisms help maintain adequate oxygen supply to hypoxia sensitive organs , but burden the cardiovascular system. The aim was to investigate human compensatory mechanisms and their effects on the cardiovascular system with regard to cardiac function and morphology , blood flow redistribution , serum biomarkers of the adrenergic system and myocardial injury markers following prolonged apnoea. Seventeen elite apnoea divers performed maximal breath-hold during cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging ( CMR). Two breath-hold sessions were performed to assess ( 1) cardiac function , myocardial tissue properties and ( 2) blood flow. In between CMR sessions , a head MRI was performed for the assessment of signs of silent brain ischemia. Urine and blood samples were analysed prior to and up to 4 h after the first breath-hold. Mean breath-hold time was 297 ± 52 s. Left ventricular ( LV) end-systolic , end-diastolic , and stroke volume increased significantly ( p < 0.05). Peripheral oxygen saturation , LV ejection fraction , LV fractional shortening , and heart rate decreased significantly ( p < 0.05). Blood distribution was diverted to cerebral regions with no significant changes in the descending aorta. Catecholamine levels , high-sensitivity cardiac troponin , and NT-pro-BNP levels increased significantly , but did not reach pathological levels. Compensatory effects of prolonged apnoea substantially burden the cardiovascular system. CMR tissue characterisation did not reveal acute myocardial injury , indicating that the resulting cardiovascular stress does not exceed compensatory physiological limits in healthy subjects. However , these compensatory mechanisms could overly tax those limits in subjects with pre-existing cardiac disease. For divers interested in competetive apnoea diving , a comprehensive medical exam with a special focus on the cardiovascular system may be warranted. This prospective single-centre study was approved by the institutional ethics committee review board. It was retrospectively registered under ClinicalTrials.gov ( Trial registration: NCT02280226. Registered 29 October 2014).