  Adverse childhood experiences ( ACEs) negatively impact health throughout the life course. For children exposed to ACEs , resilience may be particularly important. However , the literature regarding resilience , particularly the self-regulation aspect of resilience , is not often described in children with ACEs. Additionally , family and community factors that might help promote resilience in childhood may be further elucidated. We aimed to describe the relationship between ACEs and parent-perceived resilience in children and examine the child , family , and community-level factors associated with child resilience. Using the US-based , 2011-2012 National Survey of Children 's Health , we examined adverse childhood experiences ( NSCH-ACEs) as the main exposure. Affirmative answers to adverse experiences generated a total parent-reported NSCH-ACE score. Bivariate and multivariable logistic regression models were constructed for parent-perceived child resilience and its association with ACEs , controlling for child , family , and neighborhood-level factors. Among 62,200 US children 6-17 years old , 47 % had 0 ACEs , 26 % had 1 ACE , 19 % had 2-3 ACEs , and 8 % had 4 or more ACEs. Child resilience was associated with ACEs in a dose-dependent relationship: as ACEs increased , the probability of resilience decreased. This relationship persisted after controlling for child , family , and community factors. Specific community factors , such as neighborhood safety ( p < .001) , neighborhood amenities ( e.g. , libraries , parks) ( p < .01) and mentorship ( p < .05) , were associated with significantly higher adjusted probabilities of resilience , when compared to peers without these specific community factors. While ACEs are common and may be difficult to prevent , there may be opportunities for health care providers , child welfare professionals , and policymakers to strengthen children and families by supporting community-based activities , programs , and policies that promote resilience in vulnerable children and communities in which they live.