  Bananas ( Musa spp.) are the most important fruit crops worldwide due to their high nutrition value. Fusarium<pathogen> wilt of banana , caused by fungal pathogen Fusarium<pathogen> oxysporum<pathogen> f. sp. cubense tropical race 4 ( Foc 4) , is considered as the most destructive disease in the world and results in extensive damage leading to productivity loss. The widespread use of plant resistance inducers ( PRIs) , such as benzothiadiazole ( BTH) , is a novel strategy to stimulate defense responses in banana plants to protect against pathogens infection. The recent focus on the crop defense against fungal infections has led to a renewed interest on understanding the molecular mechanisms of specific PRIs-mediated resistance. This transcriptome study aimed to identify genes that are associated with BTH-induced resistance. Patterns of gene expression in the leaves and roots of BTH-sprayed banana plants were studied using RNA-Seq. In this study , 18 RNA-Seq libraries from BTH-sprayed and untreated leaves and roots of the Cavendish plants , the most widely grown banana cultivar , were used for studying the transcriptional basis of BTH-related resistance. Comparative analyses have revealed that 6689 and 3624 differentially expressed genes were identified in leaves and roots , respectively , as compared to the control. Approximately 80 % of these genes were differentially expressed in a tissue-specific manner. Further analysis showed that signaling perception and transduction , transcription factors , disease resistant proteins , plant hormones and cell wall organization-related genes were stimulated by BTH treatment , especially in roots. Interestingly , the ethylene and auxin biosynthesis and response genes were found to be up-regulated in leaves and roots , respectively , suggesting a choice among BTH-responsive phytohormone regulation. Our data suggests a role for BTH in enhancing banana plant defense responses to Foc 4 infection , and demonstrates that BTH selectively affect biological processes associated with plant defenses. The genes identified in the study could be further studied and exploited to develop Foc 4-resistant banana varieties.