  Atherosclerosis is the major worldwide cause of mortality for patients with coronary heart disease. Many traditional Chinese medicine compound prescriptions for atherosclerosis treatment have been tried in patients. Dan-Lou prescription , which is improved from Gualou-Xiebai-Banxia decoction , has been used to treat chest<symptom> discomfort<symptom> ( coronary atherosclerosis) for approximately 2,000 years in China. Although the anti-inflammatory activities of Dan-Lou prescription have been proposed previously , the mechanism remains to be explored. Based on the interaction between inflammation<symptom> and atherosclerosis , we further investigated the effect of Dan-Lou prescription on macrophage-derived foam cell formation and disclosed the underlying mechanisms. In the oxidative low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL) induced foam cells model using murine macrophage RAW 264.7 cells , the ethanol extract from Dan-Lou prescription ( EEDL) reduced ox-LDL uptake and lipid deposition by inhibiting the protein and mRNA expression of Toll-like receptor ( TLR) 4 and scavenger receptor ( SR) B1. After stimulation with ox-LDL , the metabolic profile of macrophages was also changed , while the intervention of the EEDL mainly regulated the metabolism of isovalerylcarnitine , arachidonic acid , cholesterol , aspartic acid , arginine , lysine , L-glutamine and phosphatidylethanolamine ( 36:3) , which participated in the regulation of the inflammatory response , lipid accumulation and cell apoptosis. In total , 27 inflammation-related gene targets were screened , and the biological mechanisms , pathways and biological functions of the EEDL on macrophage-derived foam cells were systemically analyzed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis system ( IPA). After verification , we found that EEDL alleviated ox-LDL induced macrophage foam cell formation by antagonizing the mRNA and protein over-expression of PPARγ , blocking the phosphorylation of IKKα/β , IκBα and NF-κB p65 and maintaining the expression balance<symptom> between Bax and Bcl-2. In conclusion , we provided evidences that Dan-Lou prescription effectively attenuated macrophage foam cell formation via the TLR4/NF-κB and PPARγ signaling pathways.