  The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical features and laboratory factors that are predictive of intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG)- resistant Kawasaki disease. Multiple databases were searched for relevant studies on IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease published from January 2002 to April 2017. Eligible studies were retrieved by manual review of the references. Stata 12 was used for the meta-analysis. Weighted mean differences and odds ratios with 95 % confidence intervals were calculated for several indices. Twenty-eight studies involving 26,260 patients comprising 4442 IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease patients and 21,818 IVIG-sensitive Kawasaki disease patients were included. The meta-analysis showed that the erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR) in the IVIG-resistant group was significantly higher than that in the IVIG-sensitive group , and that platelet count and hemoglobin levels were significantly lower in the IVIG-resistant group. The patients with oral mucosa alterations , cervical<pathogen> lymphadenopathy<pathogen> , swelling of the extremities , polymorphous rash<pathogen> , and initial administration of IVIG ≤ 4.0 days after the onset of symptoms were more likely to be IVIG resistant. The initial administration of IVIG ≤ 4.0 days after the onset of symptoms increased ESR and decreased hemoglobin and platelet counts , oral mucosa alterations , cervical<pathogen> lymphadenopathy<pathogen> , swelling of the extremities , and polymorphous rash<pathogen> and are the risk factors for IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease. What is Known: • Recent reports on this topic are about aspartate aminotransferase ( AST) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT) , gammaglutamyl transferase , total bilirubin , white blood cells , platelets , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR) , polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( PMN) , C-reactive protein ( CRP) , pro-brain natriuretic peptide ( BNP) , albumin , and sodium as the risk factors in the IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease; however , no studies have been published on clinical features as predictors of IVIG resistance. What is New: • This meta-analysis identified the clinical features , the initial administration of IVIG ≤ 4.0 days after the onset of symptoms , and much more comprehensive laboratory indicators , such as hemoglobin , as predictors of IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease.