  More than 65 million persons are currently forcibly displaced , of whom more than 22 million are refugees. Conflicts are increasing , and existing ones are becoming more protracted; a refugee remains a refugee for more than 10 years. Funding for refugee assistance comes primarily from high-income countries after an emergency has occurred. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees spent approximately 12 % of its budget on health , nutrition , food security , water , and sanitation in 2016. The current modalities used to fund refugee emergencies are not sustainable and will worsen as health needs increase and health services become more expensive , particularly in middle-income countries. Given the current number of complex conflicts and the magnitude of displacement , new sources of funding and innovative financing instruments are needed. This article explores diverse sources of innovative humanitarian health financing for refugees. Ultimately , the goal is to integrate refugees into a host country 's functioning national health system , which , if done thoughtfully , should improve health services and outcomes for both nationals and refugees. Addressing the increasing level of humanitarian needs for refugees requires a wide range of resources and a sophisticated financing toolkit that can be adapted to different refugee contexts. Improving health financing for refugees requires a paradigm shift towards pre-emergency and multi-year planning using risk-transfer instruments. It necessitates a wide range of public and private partners and varied resources that range from health insurance , bonds , and concessional loans to host countries with innovative methods for purchasing projects and services such as pay for performance. These modalities need to be employed according to specific refugee contexts , and the potential risks must be considered carefully. We propose the exploration of a Refugee Health Financing Model , or FinRef , for the acute phase of an emergency , and different forms of health insurance as well as pay-for-performance modalities in protracted settings. Such innovations will require traditional and non-traditional partners to work together to trial different financial schemes. Donors and investors need to be prepared to experiment and accept failure of some models in certain contexts. Ultimately , different innovative financing models will be able to provide more sustainable and effective health services to refugees and their host populations in the near future.