  Infants and children travel using passports that are typically valid for five years ( e.g. Canada , United Kingdom , United States and Australia). These individuals may also need to be identified using images taken from videos and other sources in forensic situations including child exploitation cases. However , few researchers have examined how useful these images are as a means of identification. We investigated the effectiveness of photo identification for infants and children using a face matching task , where participants were presented with two images simultaneously and asked whether the images depicted the same child or two different children. In Experiment 1 , both images showed an infant ( < 1 year old) , whereas in Experiment 2 , one image again showed an infant but the second image of the child was taken at 4-5 years of age. In Experiments 3a and 3b , we asked participants to complete shortened versions of both these tasks ( selecting the most difficult trials) as well as the short version Glasgow face matching test. Finally , in Experiment 4 , we investigated whether information regarding the sex of the infants and children could be accurately perceived from the images. In Experiment 1 , we found low levels of performance ( 72 % accuracy) for matching two infant photos. For Experiment 2 , performance was lower still ( 64 % accuracy) when infant and child images were presented , given the significant changes in appearance that occur over the first five years of life. In Experiments 3a and 3b , when participants completed both these tasks , as well as a measure of adult face matching ability , we found lowest performance for the two infant tasks , along with mixed evidence of within-person correlations in sensitivities across all three tasks. The use of only same-sex pairings on mismatch trials , in comparison with random pairings , had little effect on performance measures. In Experiment 4 , accuracy when judging the sex of infants was at chance levels for one image set and above chance ( although still low) for the other set. As expected , participants were able to judge the sex of children ( aged 4-5) from their faces. Identity matching with infant and child images resulted in low levels of performance , which were significantly worse than for an adult face matching task. Taken together , the results of the experiments presented here provide evidence that child facial photographs are ineffective for use in real-world identification.