  Sleep deprivation ( SD) adversely affects brain function and is accompanied by frequency-dependent changes in electroencephalograms ( EEGs). Recent studies have suggested that acupuncture is an emerging alternative therapy for SD. However , the involvement of the frequency of EEG α and β waves in the protective effect of acupuncture against SD remains unknown. The present study investigated the instant effect of acupuncture at GV20 on insomnia by analyzing the frequency of α and β waves using electroencephalography in a model of sleep deprivation. A total of 16 rats ( Wistar; male; weight , 340 ± 10 g) were divided randomly into four groups ( 4 rats per group) to create a rat model of sleep deprivation using the modified multiple platform method in the GV20 group , the sham acupoint group and the model group. After 72 h of sleep deprivation for these three groups and normal feeding for the blank group , the EEG data of all four groups were documented. Following the initial measurement , the GV20 group was treated by acupuncture at GV20 and the sham acupoint group was treated at the sham acupoint , and their EEGs were recorded during the treatment. The frequency of α and β waves of all EEG data were analyzed. Prior to intervention , the GV20 group , the sham acupoint group and the model group exhibited no significant differences in α and β wave frequencies; however , the α wave frequency of these three groups was significantly decreased compared with the blank group ( P < 0.05) , whereas the β wave frequency of these three groups was significantly increased compared with the blank group ( P < 0.05). This suggested that sleep deprivation affected the frequency of brain waves and enhanced the excitability of the cerebral cortex. During acupuncture treatment with retained needle conditioning , the GV20 group indicated a significant increase in α wave frequency ( P < 0.05) , as well as a significant decrease in β wave frequency compared with prior to treatment ( P < 0.05) , whereas the sham acupoint group exhibited no significant changes. The present findings from a rat model of sleep deprivation suggested that acupuncture treatment at GV20 may reduce the excitability of the brain cortex. Due to its sedative effect , treatment at GV20 may be considered for the treatment of insomnia and related symptoms.