  The aim of this study was to assess the impact of inherent aspects of body image , eating behavior and perceived health competence on quality of life of university students. Participants completed the instruments Body Shape Questionnaire ( reduced version , BSQ-8B) , Male Body Dissatisfaction Scale ( reduced version , MBDS-R) , Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire ( reduced version , TFEQ-18) , Perceived Health Competence Scale ( bifactorial version , PHCS-B) , World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire-Short Form ( WHOQoL-bref) and a questionnaire for characterization of sample. Psychometric properties of instruments were previously evaluated by confirmatory factor analysis. A hypothetical model for each sex was developed and tested. In both model surveys the aspects of the body image ( BSQ-8B: body shape concern; MBDS-R: musculature and general body appearance) , of eating behavior ( TFEQ-18: cognitive restriction , emotional eating , and uncontrolled eating) and of the perceived health competence ( PHCS-B: expectations of achieving the desired health results and competence in health behaviors) were used as direct predictors on quality of life ( WHOQoL-bref). The variables age , medication use for body<symptom> change<symptom> , food supplement use for body<symptom> change<symptom> , and body mass index ( BMI) were inserted in the aspects of the body image. The variables course shift , initial expectation regarding the course , self-reported performance in the course , concomitant work activities to studies , and economic class were inserted into the quality of life. The model surveys were evaluated using structural equation modeling. A level of significance of 5 % was used. A total of 2,198 university students ( female = 63.5 %) , including 1,151 Brazilians and 1,047 Portuguese , participated of study ( locally representative samples). The average age of women was 20.8 ± 2.4 years and of men was 21.3 ± 3.3 years. The psychometric properties of the instruments were adequate , except for the PHCS , which was adjusted for each sex. The models presented variance explained of 54 % and 49 % for women and men , respectively. In both sexes , the students ' perceived health competence and academic variables contributed significantly to their quality of life , and age , BMI , and medication and supplement use were significant factors relating to how a student views his or her body image. Women 's quality of life was associated with body shape concern and emotional eating aspects. Men 's quality of life was associated with general body appearance and cognitive restriction aspects. These results can be used to create and implement educational programs to improve quality of life of university students.