  Derive and validate a shortlist of chief complaints to describe unscheduled acute and emergency care in Uganda. A single , private , not-for profit hospital in rural , southwestern Uganda. From 2009 to 2015 , 26996 patient visits produced 42566 total chief complaints for the derivation dataset , and from 2015 to 2017 , 10068 visits produced 20165 total chief complaints for the validation dataset. A retrospective review of an emergency centre quality assurance database was performed. Data were abstracted , cleaned and refined using language processing in Stata to produce a longlist of chief complaints , which was collapsed via a consensus process to produce a shortlist and turned into a web-based tool. This tool was used by two local Ugandan emergency care practitioners to categorise complaints from a second longlist produced from a separate validation dataset from the same study site. Their agreement on grouping was analysed using Cohen 's kappa to determine inter-rater reliability. The chief complaints describing 80 % of patient visits from automated and consensus shortlists were combined to form a candidate chief complaint shortlist. Automated data cleaning and refining recognised 95.8 % of all complaints and produced a longlist of 555 chief complaints. The consensus process yielded a shortlist of 83 grouped chief complaints. The second validation dataset was reduced in Stata to a longlist of 451 complaints. Using the shortlist tool to categorise complaints produced 71.5 % agreement , yielding a kappa of 0.70 showing substantial inter-rater reliability. Only one complaint did not fit into the shortlist and required a free-text amendment. The two shortlists were identical for the most common 14 complaints and combined to form a candidate list of 24 complaints that could characterise over 80 % of all emergency centre chief complaints. Shortlists of chief complaints can be generated to improve standardisation of data entry , facilitate research efforts and be employed for paper chart usage.