  Malignant struma ovarii is an ovarian teratoma containing at least 50 % thyroid tissue which has the potential to metastasize and produce thyroid hormone. Given its rarity , management strategies are not well-established. We report a case of metastatic malignant struma ovarii discovered during pregnancy with lessons for evaluation and management. A 30-year-old woman who was two months pregnant was discovered to have struma ovarii with over half of the struma comprised of papillary thyroid cancer. Following tumor resection , delivery , and thyroidectomy , she underwent evaluation with stimulated thyroglobulin testing and diagnostic staging sodium iodide-131 scan ( I-131) , which revealed the presence of skeletal metastases. Following administration of 320 mCi I-131 , post-therapy scan also showed miliary pulmonary metastases with improved ability to localize the bony and pulmonary metastases with concurrent SPECT/CT imaging. A second dosimetry-guided I-131 therapy resulted in complete resolution of pulmonary metastases; however , small foci of residual bone disease persisted. Post-therapy scans demonstrated additional findings not shown on diagnostic I-131 scans obtained prior to both her initial and second I-131 therapy. SPECT/CT provides accurate anatomic correlation and localization of metastatic foci and can serve as a baseline study to assess interval response to treatment. Post-therapy scans should always be obtained when I-131 treatment is administered , as additional findings may be revealed versus low dose I-131 activity diagnostic scans. This patient had a high metastatic burden that would not have been discovered in a timely fashion with the conservative approach advocated by others. Thyroidectomy followed by a diagnostic staging radioiodine scan and a stimulated thyroglobulin level should be considered in patients with malignant struma ovarii for guiding therapeutic I-131 administration as metastatic risk is difficult to predict based on histopathologic examination.