  Biostatistics is a key but challenging subject in medical curricula that is usually delivered via a didactic approach in China. However , whether it is the best teaching approach to improve the learner 's competency , especially for medical postgraduates is yet to be proved. Therefore , a block curriculum design was initially developed to provide selective education to the postgraduates towards the professional career of their interest. A questionnaire was designed to assess the students ' perceptions toward biostatistics as these affective factors might impact the learning process. Thus , the present study aimed to detect whether the new block curriculum design could promote the students ' positive perceptions and further improve the course achievement. This cohort study investigated and assessed the perceptions toward biostatistics of the first-year postgraduates undergoing traditional teaching and block teaching , respectively. Structural equation modeling was applied to explore the association between perception and course achievement in the block teaching group. With a response rate of 97.84 and 96.67 % from the two cohorts respectively , 499 block teaching postgraduates had more positive perceptions as compared to 465 traditionally teaching postgraduates with Likert 5-point agreement response mean of 3.50 vs. 3.31 for course value , 3.66 vs. 2.97 for course comment , and 4.29 vs. 4.10 for expectation. Moreover , block teaching students presented superior confidence about academic statistical knowledge , and therefore , 77.96 % of them approved of the new teaching approach. Age , specialty , research experience , logical thinking capacity , mathematical basics , and computer basics might influence the postgraduates ' self-assessment ability ( all P < 0.05). Structural equation modeling confirmed a positive correlation between perceptions and the course achievements with a reasonable fit. The block curriculum design in the biostatistics course improved the postgraduates ' positive perception and may have had a positive role in improving postgraduates ' achievement in learning biostatistics.