  There is a compelling need for management training amongst hospital managers in Nigeria mostly because management was never a part of the curricula in medical schools and this has resulted in their deficiencies in effective policymaking , planning and bottom line management. There has been no study to the best of our knowledge on the need and likely factors that may influence the acquisition of such training by hospital managers and this in effect was the reason for this study. Data for this study came from a cross-sectional survey distributed amongst management staff in twenty five ( 25) hospitals that were purposively selected. One hundred and twenty five ( 125) questionnaires were distributed , out of which one hundred and four ( 104) were answered and returned giving a response rate of 83.2 %. Descriptive and Inferential statistics were used to summarize the results. Decisions were made at 5 % level of significance. A binary logistic regression was performed on the data to predict the logit of being formally and informally trained in health management. These statistical techniques were done using the IBM SPSS version 20. The result revealed a high level of formal and informal trainings amongst the respondent managers. In formal management training , only few had no training ( 27.9 %) while in informal management training , all had obtained a form of training of which in-service training predominates ( 84.6 %). Most of the administrators/managers also had the intention of attending healthcare management programme within the next five years ( 62.5 %). Socio-demographically , age ( p = .032) and academic qualification ( p < .001) had significant influence on training. Number of hospital beds ( p < .001) and number of staff ( p < .001) including managers ' current designation ( p < .001) also had significant influence on training. Our work did establish the critical need for both formal and informal trainings in health management for health care managers. Emphasis on training should be directed at younger managers who are the least likely to acquire such trainings , the smaller and private hospitals who are less likely to encourage such trainings amongst their staff and the least educated amongst health managers.