  Due to the disease 's progressive nature , advance care planning ( ACP) is recommended for people with early stage dementia. General practitioners ( GPs) should initiate ACP because of their longstanding relationships with their patients and their early involvement with the disease , however ACP is seldom applied. To determine the barriers and facilitators faced by GPs related to ACP with people with dementia. We systematically searched the relevant databases for papers published between January 1995 and December 2016 , using the terms: primary healthcare , GP , dementia , and ACP. We conducted a systematic integrative review following Whittemore and Knafl 's method. Papers containing empirical data about GP barriers and/or facilitators regarding ACP for people with dementia were included. We evaluated quality using the Mixed-Method-Appraisal-Tool and analyzed data using qualitative content analysis. Ten qualitative , five quantitative , and one mixed-method paper revealed four themes: timely initiation of ACP , stakeholder engagement , important aspects of ACP the conversation , and prerequisites for ACP. Important barriers were: uncertainty about the timing of ACP , how to plan for an uncertain future , lack of knowledge about dementia , difficulties assessing people with dementia 's decisional capacities , and changing preferences. Facilitators for ACP were: an early start when cognitive decline is still mild , inclusion of all stakeholders , and discussing social and medical issues aimed at maintaining normal life. Discussing future care is difficult due to uncertainties about the future and the decisional capacities of people with dementia. Based on the facilitators , we recommend that GPs use a timely and goal-oriented approach and involve all stakeholders. ACP discussions should focus on the ability of people with dementia to maintain normal daily function as well as on their quality of life , instead of end-of-life-discussions only. GPs need training to acquire knowledge and skills to timely initiate collaborative ACP discussions.