  Huntington disease ( HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion in the huntingtin ( HTT) gene , leading to selective and progressive neuronal death predominantly in the striatum<pathogen>. Mutant HTT expression causes dysfunctional cortico-striatal ( CS) transmission , loss of CS synapses , and striatal medium spiny neuron ( MSN) dendritic spine instability prior to neuronal death. Co-culturing cortical and striatal neurons in vitro promotes the formation of functional CS synapses and is a widely used approach to elucidate pathogenic mechanisms of HD and to validate potential synapto-protective therapies. A number of relevant in vivo synaptic phenotypes from the YAC128 HD mouse model , which expresses full-length transgenic human mutant HTT , are recapitulated in CS co-culture by 21 days in vitro ( DIV). However , striatal spine loss , which occurs in HD patients and in vivo animal models , has been observed in YAC128 CS co-culture in some studies but not in others , leading to difficulties in reproducing and interpreting results. Here , we investigated whether differences in the relative proportion of cortical and striatal neurons alter YAC128 synaptic phenotypes in this model. YAC128 MSNs in 1:1 CS co-culture exhibited impaired dendritic length and complexity compared to wild-type , whereas reducing cortical input using a 1:3 CS ratio revealed a dramatic loss of YAC128 MSN dendritic spines. Chimeric experiments determined that this spine instability was primarily cell autonomous , depending largely on mutant HTT expression in striatal neurons. Moreover , we found that spontaneous electrophysiological MSN activity correlated closely with overall dendritic length , with no differences observed between genotypes in 1:3 co-cultures despite significant YAC128 spine loss. Finally , limiting cortical input with a 1:3 CS ratio impaired the basal survival of YAC128 neurons at DIV21 , and this was partially selective for dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein 32-positive MSNs. Our findings reconcile previous discordant reports of spine loss in this model , and improve the utility and reliability of the CS co-culture for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for HD.