  Physical fitness training after stroke is recommended in guidelines across the world , but evidence pertains mainly to ambulatory stroke survivors. Nonambulatory stroke survivors ( FAC score ≤ 2) are at increased risk of recurrent stroke due to limited physical activity. This systematic review aimed to synthesize evidence regarding case fatality , effects , experiences , and feasibility of fitness training for nonambulatory stroke survivors. Eight major databases were searched for any type of study design. Two independent reviewers selected studies , extracted data , and assessed study quality , using published tools. Random-effects meta-analysis was used. Following their separate analysis , qualitative and quantitative data were synthesized using a published framework. Of 13,614 records , 33 studies involving 910 nonambulatory participants met inclusion criteria. Most studies were of moderate quality. Interventions comprised assisted walking ( 25 studies) , cycle ergometer training ( 5 studies) , and other training ( 3 studies) , mainly in acute settings. Case fatality did not differ between intervention ( 1.75 %) and control ( 0.88 %) groups ( 95 % CI 0.13-3.78 , p = 0.67). Compared with control interventions , assisted walking significantly improved: fat mass , peak heart rate , peak oxygen uptake and walking endurance , maximum walking speed , and mobility at intervention end , and walking endurance , balance<symptom> , mobility , and independent walking at follow-up. Cycle ergometry significantly improved peak heart rate , work load , peak ventilation , peak carbon dioxide production , HDL cholesterol , fasting insulin and fasting glucose , and independence at intervention end. Effectiveness of other training could not be established. There were insufficient qualitative data to draw conclusions about participants ' experiences , but those reported were positive. There were few intervention-related adverse events , and dropout rate ranged from 12 to 20 %. Findings suggest safety , effectiveness , and feasibility of adapted fitness training for screened nonambulatory stroke survivors. Further research needs to investigate the clinical and cost-effectiveness as well as experiences of fitness training-especially for chronic stroke survivors in community settings.