  Metastatic triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC) is a heterogeneous and incurable disease. Numerous studies have been conducted to seek molecular targets to treat TNBC effectively , but chemotherapy is still the main choice for patients with TNBC. We have previously presented evidence of the important roles of interleukin-6 ( IL-6) and chemokine ( C-C motif) ligand 5 ( CCL5) in TNBC tumor growth and metastasis. These experiments highlighted the importance of the crosstalk between cancer cells and stromal lymphatic endothelial cells ( LECs) in tumor growth and metastasis. We examined the viability and migration of MDA-MB-231-LN , SUM149 , and SUM159 cells co-cultured with LECs when treated with maraviroc ( CCR5 inhibitor) and tocilizumab ( anti-IL-6 receptor antibody). To assess the anti-tumor effects of the combination of these two drugs in an athymic nude mouse model , MDA-MB-231-LN cells were implanted in the mammary fat pad and maraviroc ( 8 mg/kg , orally daily) and cMR16-1 ( murine surrogate of the anti-IL-6R antibody , 10 mg/kg , IP , 3 days a week) were administrated for 5 weeks and effects on tumor growth and thoracic metastasis were measured. In this study , we used maraviroc and tocilizumab to confirm that IL-6 and CCL5 signaling are key pathways promoting TNBC cell proliferation and migration. Further , in a xenograft mouse model , we showed that tumor growth was dramatically inhibited by cMR16-1 , the mouse version of the anti-IL6R antibody. The combination of maraviroc and cMR16-1 caused significant reduction of TNBC tumor growth compared to the single agents. Significantly , the combination of maraviroc and cMR16-1 abrogated thoracic metastasis. Taken together , these findings show that IL-6 and CCL5 signaling , which promote crosstalk between TNBC and lymphatic vessels , are key enhancers of TNBC tumor growth and metastasis. Furthermore , these results demonstrate that a drug combination inhibiting these pathways may be a promising therapy for TNBC patients.