  Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are Australia 's first peoples and have been connected to the land for ≥ 65000 years. Their enduring cultures and values are considered critical to health and wellbeing , alongside physical , psychological and social factors. We currently lack large-scale data that adequately represent the experiences of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people; the absence of evidence on cultural practice and expression is particularly striking , given its foundational importance to wellbeing. Mayi Kuwayu: The National Study of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Wellbeing ( Mayi Kuwayu Study) will be a large-scale , national longitudinal study of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adults , with linkage to health-related administrative records. The baseline survey was developed through extensive community consultation , and includes items on: cultural practice and expression , sociodemographic factors , health and wellbeing , health behaviours , experiences and environments , and family support and connection. The baseline survey will be mailed to 200 000 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander adults ( ≥ 16 years) , yielding an estimated 16 000-40 000 participants , supplemented through face-to-face recruitment. Follow-up surveys will be conducted every 3-5 years , or as funding allows. The Mayi Kuwayu Study will contribute to filling key evidence gaps , including quantifying the contribution of cultural factors to wellbeing , alongside standard elements of health and risk. This study has received approval from national Human Research Ethics Committees , and from State and Territory committees , including relevant Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander organisations. The study was developed and is conducted in partnership with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander organisations across states and territories. It will provide an enduring and shared infrastructure to underpin programme and policy development , based on measures and values important to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Approved researchers can access confidentialised data and disseminate findings according to study data access and governance protocols.