  Currently available evaluation criteria for penile tumescence and rigidity have been fraught with controversy. In this study , we sought to establish normative Chinese evaluation criteria for penile tumescence and rigidity by utilizing audiovisual sexual stimulation and RigiScan ™ test ( AVSS-Rigiscan test) with the administration of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor. A total of 1169 patients ( aged 18-67 years) complained of erectile dysfunction ( ED) underwent AVSS-RigiScan test with the administration of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor. A total of 1078 patients whose final etiological diagnosis was accurate by means of history , endocrine , vascular , and neurological diagnosis , International Index of Erectile Function 5 questionnaire , and erection hardness score were included in the research. Logistic regression model and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis were performed to determine the cutoff value of the RigiScan ™ data. Then , the multivariable logistic analysis was used in the selected variables. A normal result is defined as one erection with basal rigidity over 60 % sustained for at least 8.75 min , average event rigidity of tip at least 43.5 % and base at least 50.5 % , average maximum rigidity of tip at least 62.5 % and base at least 67.5 % , △ tumescence ( increase of tumescence or maximum-minimum tumescence) of tip at least 1.75 cm and base at least 1.95 cm , total tumescence time at least 29.75 min , and times of total tumescence at least once. Most importantly , basal rigidity over 60 % sustained for at least 8.75 min , average event rigidity of tip at least 43.5 % , and base at least 50.5 % would be the new normative Chinese evaluation criteria for penile tumescence and rigidity. By multivariable logistic regression analysis , six significant RigiScan ™ parameters including times of total tumescence , duration of erectile episodes over 60 % , average event rigidity of tip , △ tumescence of tip , average event rigidity of base , and △ tumescence of base contribute to the risk model of ED. In logistic regression equation , predict value P < 0.303 was considered as psychogenic ED. The sensitivity and specificity of the AVSS-RigiScan test with the administration of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor in discriminating psychogenic from organic ED was 87.7 % and 93.4 % , respectively. This study suggests that AVSS-RigiScan test with oral phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors can objectively assess penile tumescence and rigidity and seems to be a better modality in differentiating psychogenic from organic ED. However , due to the limited sample size , bias can not be totally excluded.