  In Kenya , most sexual violence survivors either do not access healthcare , access healthcare late or do not complete treatment. To design interventions that ensure optimal healthcare for survivors , it is important to understand the characteristics of those who do and do not access healthcare. In this paper , we aim to: compare the characteristics of survivors who present for healthcare to those of survivors reporting violence on national surveys; understand the healthcare services provided to survivors; and , identify barriers to treatment. A mixed methods approach was used. Hospital records for survivors from two referral hospitals were compared with national-level data from the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014 , and the Violence Against Children Survey 2010. Descriptive summaries were calculated and differences in characteristics of the survivors assessed using chi-square tests. Qualitative data from six in-depth interviews with healthcare providers were analysed thematically. Among the 543 hospital respondents , 93.2 % were female; 69.5 % single; 71.9 % knew the perpetrator; and 69.2 % were children below 18 years. Compared to respondents disclosing sexual violence in nationally representative datasets , those who presented at hospital were less likely to be partnered , male , or assaulted by an intimate partner. Data suggest missed opportunities for treatment among those who did present to hospital: HIV<pathogen> PEP and other STI prophylaxis was not given to 30 and 16 % of survivors respectively; 43 % of eligible women did not receive emergency contraceptive; and , laboratory results were missing in more than 40 % of the records. Those aged 18 years or below and those assaulted by known perpetrators were more likely to miss being put on HIV<pathogen> PEP. Qualitative data highlighted challenges in accessing and providing healthcare that included stigma , lack of staff training , missing equipment and poor coordination of services. Nationally , survivors at higher risk of not accessing healthcare include older survivors; partnered or ever partnered survivors; survivors experiencing sexual violence from intimate partners; children experiencing violence in schools; and men. Interventions at the community level should target survivors who are unlikely to access healthcare and address barriers to early access to care. Staff training and specific clinical guidelines/protocols for treating children are urgently needed.