  Self-sampling to test for high risk human papilloma virus ( HPV) is becoming an increasingly important component of cervical cancer screening. The aim of this observational study is to examine how women treated for high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( CIN) view HPV self-sampling. Invited to participate in the present study were patients who had undergone treatment of high-grade CIN ( grade 2 or higher) and were followed-up at 6-months at the Karolinska University Hospital , Stockholm. The participants were instructed as to how to perform HPV self-sampling. Thereafter , the participants completed a questionnaire about HPV self-sampling and other cervical cancer screening methods , as well as about self-perceived risk of cervical cancer without regular gynecologic follow-up and about specific knowledge regarding HPV , CIN and cervical cancer. Altogether 479 women enrolled in this study. The participation rate was 96.6 %. Nearly 75 % of the participants stated they would consider performing the HPV self-sampling prior to their next gynecologic follow-up. Confidence in HPV self-sampling was a significant independent predictor of willingness to perform HPV self-sampling. However , confidence in HPV self-sampling was significantly lower than confidence in Papanicolaou smears and in HPV testing with samples collected by health professionals. Higher specific knowledge about HPV , CIN and cervical cancer was also a significant independent predictor of willingness to perform HPV self-sampling , as was having travelled longer distance to attend gynecologic follow-up. Participants with lower income and without completed university education expressed significantly higher confidence in HPV self-sampling and lower confidence in Papanicolaou smears than the other women. To the best of our knowledge , this is the first study to examine the views of women treated for high-grade CIN vis-à-vis HPV self-sampling. The latter is an acceptable option for the vast majority of this cohort of women.