  Bacteria respond to environmental changes through the co-ordinated regulation of gene expression , often mediated by two-component regulatory systems ( TCS). Group A Streptococcus<pathogen> ( GAS) , a bacterium<pathogen> which infects multiple human body sites and causes multiple diseases , possesses up to 14 TCS. In this study we examined genetic variation in the coding sequences and non-coding DNA upstream of these TCS as a method for evaluating relationships between different GAS emm-types , and potential associations with GAS disease. Twelve of the 14 TCS were present in 90 % of the genomes examined. The length of the intergenic regions ( IGRs) upstream of TCS coding regions varied from 39 to 345 nucleotides , with an average nucleotide diversity of 0.0064. Overall , IGR allelic variation was generally conserved with an emm-type. Subsequent phylogenetic analysis of concatenated sequences based on all TCS IGR sequences grouped genomes of the same emm-type together. However grouping with emm-pattern and emm-cluster-types was much weaker , suggesting epidemiological and functional properties associated with the latter are not due to evolutionary relatedness of emm-types. All emm5 , emm6 and most of the emm18 genomes , all historically considered rheumatogenic emm-types clustered together , suggesting a shared evolutionary history. However emm1 , emm3 and several emm18 genomes did not cluster within this group. These latter emm18 isolates were epidemiologically distinct from other emm18 genomes in study , providing evidence for local variation. emm-types associated with invasive disease or nephritogenicity also did not cluster together. Considering the TCS coding sequences ( cds) , correlation with emm-type was weaker than for the IGRs , and no strong correlation with disease was observed. Deletion of the malate transporter , maeP , was identified that serves as a putative marker for the emm89 .0 subtype , which has been implicated in invasive outbreaks. A recombination-related , subclade-forming DNA motif was identified in the putative receiver domain of the Spy1556 response regulator that correlated with throat-associated emm-pattern-type A-C strains.