  Nanotechnology has gained important interest , especially in the development of new therapies; the application of gold nanoparticles ( AuNPs) in the treatment and detection of diseases is a growing trend in this field. As cancer represents a serious health problem around the world , AuNPs are studied as potential drugs or drug carriers for anticancer agents. Recent studies show that AuNPs stabilized with chitosan ( CH) possess interesting biological activities , including potential antitumor effects that could be selective to cancer cells. In this study , we synthesized sodium citrate-AuNPs and CH-capped AuNPs of 3-10 nm , and analyzed their cytotoxicity in cervical ( HeLa) and breast ( MCF-7) cancer cells , and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs). Then , we evaluated the clonogenic potential , cell cycle , nuclear alterations , caspase dependence , and reactive oxygen species ( ROS) production in HeLa and MCF-7 cells after chitosan gold nanoparticles ( CH-AuNPs) exposure. Our data showed that CH-AuNPs are cytotoxic in a dose-dependent manner in the cancer cell lines tested , while they induce low cytotoxicity in PBMCs. Sodium citrate gold nanoparticles did not show cytotoxic effects. In both HeLa and MCF-7 cell lines , CH-AuNPs inhibit clonogenic potential without inducing cell cycle arrest or nuclear alterations. The cell death mechanism is specific for the type of cancer cell line tested , as it depends on caspase activation in HeLa cells , whereas it is caspase independent in MCF-7 cells. In all cases , ROS production is mandatory for cell death induction by CH-AuNPs , as ROS inhibition with N-acetyl cysteine inhibits cell death. Our results show that CH-AuNPs are selective for HeLa and MCF-7 cancer cells , rather than normal PBMCs , and that ROS production seems to be a conserved feature of the cell death mechanism induced by CH-AuNPs. These results improve the knowledge of CH-AuNPs and open the way to the design of new pharmacological strategies using these agents against cancer.