  Pig-to-human organ transplantation has drawn attention in recent years due to the potential use of pigs as an alternative source of human donor organs. While GGTA1 knockout ( GTKO) can protect xenografts from hyperacute rejection , complement-dependent cytotoxicity might still contribute to this type of rejection. To prolong the xenograft survival , we utilized a T2A-mediated pCMV-hCD55-T2A-hCD59-Neo vector and transfected the plasmid into GTKO Diannan miniature pig fetal fibroblasts. After G418 selection combined with single-cell cloning culture , four colonies were obtained , and three of these were successfully transfected with the hCD55 and hCD59. One of the three colonies was selected as donor cells for somatic cell nuclear transfer ( SCNT). Then , the reconstructed embryos were transferred into eight recipient gilts , resulting in four pregnancies. Three of the pregnant gilts delivered , yielding six piglets. Only one piglet carried hCD55 and hCD59 genetic modification. The expression levels of the GGTA1 , hCD55 , and hCD59 in the tissues and fibroblasts of the piglet were determined by q-PCR , fluorescence microscopy , immunohistochemical staining , and western blotting analyses. The results showed the absence of GGTA1 and the coexpression of the hCD55 and hCD59. However , the mRNA expression levels of hCD55 and hCD59 in the GTKO/hCD55/hCD59 pig fibroblasts were lower than that in human 293T cells , which may be caused by low copy number and/or CMV promoter methylation. Furthermore , we performed human complement-mediated cytolysis assays using human serum solutions from 0 to 60 %. The result showed that the fibroblasts of this triple-gene modified piglet had greater survival rates than that of wild-type and GTKO controls. Taken together , these results indicate that T2A-mediated polycistronic vector system combined with SCNT can effectively generate multiplex genetically modified pigs , additional hCD55 and hCD59 expression on top of a GTKO genetic background markedly enhance the protective effect towards human serum-mediated cytolysis than those of GTKO alone. Thus , we suggest that GTKO/hCD55/hCD59 triple-gene-modified Diannan miniature pig will be a more eligible donor for xenotransplantation.