  Theobroma cacao is cultivated in the shade , in a so-called ` Cabruca ' system , in intercropped with Erithryna or other tree species of economic value , and in full sun as a monoculture in irrigated or chemically-irrigated systems. Since it is a species quite intolerant to wind , it is practically impossible to implant cacao crops under full exposure to the sun , or in areas of frequent winds , without the protection of windbreaks , using arboreal species around the area of culture in the form of box. Wind can cause mechanical stimuli in plants , affecting their growth and development. The objective of this work was to evaluate the photosynthetic changes in mature leaves and the molecular , biochemical and ultrastructural changes in young and mature leaves of the CCN 51 cloned genotype of T. cacao subjected to intermittent ( IW) and constant ( CW) wind , with velocities of 2.5 , 3.5 and 4.5 m s-1 , during 3 , 6 and 12 h of exposure. It was verified that CW and IW , considering different exposure times , interfered directly in stomatal conductance ( gs) , transpiration ( E) and water use efficiency ( WUE) , causing a reduction of the photosynthetic rate ( A) in mature leaves. In addition , the pulvinus and blade of young and mature leaves , exposed to IW and CW with different exposure times ( 3 and 12 h) , showed marked macroscopic and microscopic mechanical injuries resulting from the constant leaf movement. At both speeds , there was rupture of the cell nuclear membrane in pulvinus and the mesophyll tissues , mainly in the young leaves. On the other hand , in young and mature leaves exposed to CW and IW at different speeds and exposure times , there was lipid peroxidation , increased activity of guaiacol ( GPX) and ascorbate ( APX) peroxidases in most treatments; and altered expression of transcripts of psba and psbo genes related to the phothosynthetic apparatus and Cu-Zn-sod and per genes related to antioxidative enzymes at the rate of 4.5 m s-1. Younger leaves were more intolerant to mechanical stress caused by the wind , since presented greater macro and microscopic damages and , consequently , greater molecular , biochemical and ultrastructural changes. High wind speeds can seriously compromise the development of young leaves of T. cacao plants and affect their productivity.