  To determine the cost-effectiveness of Gynaecology Teaching Associate ( GTA) teaching versus conventional pelvic model ( manikin) teaching of pelvic examination skills for final year medical students within a UK undergraduate obstetrics and gynaecology ( O&G) curriculum. An economic evaluation was carried out alongside a randomised controlled trial involving 492 final year medical students. 240 students received manikin teaching , and 241 GTA-led teaching. 418 ( 85 %) students completed their assessment. Proficiency in gynaecological pelvic examination on GTAs was estimated by a senior clinical examiner , blinded to the method of teaching , using a standardised assessment tool. University of Birmingham Medical School thresholds were applied to determine proficiency levels; competence ( pass) 50 % , merit 60 % and distinction 70 %. Costs incurred in the delivery of both the educational pathways ( control and intervention) were combined. All costs are reported in 2013-2014 prices and earlier costs adjusted using inflation indices. Cost per student competent in pelvic examination at completion of a 5-week clinical O&G placement. GTA teaching was more effective compared with conventional teaching with 12 more students considered competent at pass level and 28 more students competent at merit and distinction levels , respectively. However , the average cost of GTA teaching was # 45.06 per student compared with # 7.40 per student for conventional teaching , with an increased cost of # 37.66 per student. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio demonstrated that it cost an additional # 640.20 per competent student and # 274.37 per student competent at merit level and # 274.37 at distinction level compared with conventional manikin-based teaching. GTA teaching of female pelvic examination at the start of undergraduate medical student O&G clinical placements is shown to cost more and be more effective. GTA teaching is likely to be considered cost-effective in the context of other tests , and over the lifespan of a competent doctor 's career. NCT01944592.