  Although the inhibitory effect of mistletoe on cancer cell growth has been reported , the underlying mechanisms to explain its anti-proliferative activity are not fully studied. Thus , we elucidated the potential molecular mechanism of the branch from Taxillus yadoriki ( TY) parasitic to Neolitsea sericea ( NS) ( TY-NS-B) for the anti-proliferative effect. Anti-cell proliferative effect was evaluated by MTT assay. The change of cyclin D1 protein or mRNA level was evaluated by Western blot and RT-RCR , respectively. In comparison of anti-proliferative effect of TY from the host trees such as Cryptomeria japonica<pathogen> ( CJ) , Neolitsea sericea ( NS) , Prunus serrulata ( PS) , Cinnamomum camphora ( CC) and Quercus acutissima ( QA) , TY-NS showed higher anti-cell proliferative effect than TY-CJ , TY-PS , TY-CC or TY-QA. In addition , the anti-proliferative effect of branch from TY from all host trees was better than leaves. Thus , we selected the branch from Taxillus yadoriki parasitic to Neolitsea sericea ( TY-NS-B) for the further study. TY-NS-B inhibited the cell proliferation in the various cancer cells and downregulated cyclin D1 protein level. MG132 treatment attenuated cyclin D1 downregulation of cyclin D1 protein level by TY-NS-B. In addition , TY-NS-B increased threonine-286 ( T286) phosphorylation of cyclin D1 , and the mutation of T286 to alanine ( T286A) blocked cyclin D1 proteasomal degradation by TY-NS-B. But the upstream factors related to cyclin D1 degradation such as ERK1/2 , p38 , JNK , GSK3β , PI3K , IκK or ROS did not affect cyclin D1 degradation by TY-NS-B. However , LMB treatment was observed to inhibit cyclin D1 degradation by TY-NS-B , and T286A blocked cyclin D1 degradation through suppressing cyclin D1 redistribution from nucleus to cytoplasm by TY-NS-B. In addition , TY-NS-B activated CRM1 expression. Our results suggest that TY-NS-B may suppress cell proliferation by downregulating cyclin D1 protein level through proteasomal degradation via T286 phosphorylation-dependent cyclin D1 nuclear export. These findings will provide the evidence that TY-NS-B has potential to be a candidate for the development of chemoprevention or therapeutic agents for human cancer.