  In the rational drug design process , an ensemble of conformations obtained from a molecular dynamics simulation plays a crucial role in docking experiments. Some studies have found that Fully-Flexible Receptor ( FFR) models predict realistic binding energy accurately and improve scoring to enhance selectiveness. At the same time , methods have been proposed to reduce the high computational costs involved in considering the explicit flexibility of proteins in receptor-ligand docking. This study introduces a novel method to optimize ensemble docking-based experiments by reducing the size of an InhA FFR model at docking runtime and scaling docking workflow invocations on cloud virtual machines. First , in order to find the most affordable cost-benefit pool of virtual machines , we evaluated the performance of the docking workflow invocations in different configurations of Azure instances. Second , we validated the gains obtained by the proposed method based on the quality of the Reduced Fully-Flexible Receptor ( RFFR) models produced using AutoDock4 .2. The analyses show that the proposed method reduced the model size by approximately 50 % while covering at least 86 % of the best docking results from the 74 ligands tested. Third , we tested our novel method using AutoDock Vina , a different docking software , and showed the positive accuracy achieved in the resulting RFFR models. Finally , our results demonstrated that the method proposed optimized ensemble docking experiments and is applicable to different docking software. In addition , it detected new binding modes , which would be unreachable if employing only the rigid structure used to generate the InhA FFR model. Our results showed that the selective method is a valuable strategy for optimizing ensemble docking-based experiments using different docking software. The RFFR models produced by discarding non-promising snapshots from the original model are accurately shaped for a larger number of ligands , and the elapsed time spent in the ensemble docking experiments are considerably reduced.