  People with psychosis die on average 25 years earlier than those in the general population , with cardiovascular disease ( CVD) contributing to much of the excess mortality. This cross-sectional study aimed to identify the relationship between lifestyle risk factors for CVD- poor nutrition , smoking and low physical activity levels- and dyslipidaemia , hypertension and hyperglycaemia while controlling for potential confounders in 1825 people from the Survey of High Impact Psychosis ( SHIP) in Australia. We also aimed to identify clustering patterns of lifestyle risk factors and associated demographic variables. Three logistic regressions were used to predict the effect of nutrition , smoking and physical activity on dyslipidaemia , hypertension and hyperglycaemia while controlling for clozapine use , sex and age. Clustering patterns of nutrition , smoking and physical activity were examined using the two-step cluster method which is based on hierarchical cluster analysis. Demographic variables associated with different clusters were identified using measures of association. Smoking status had a positive association with dyslipidaemia ( adjusted odds ratio = 0.50; 95 % confidence interval = 0.32-0.78; p = 0.002). Other cardiovascular disease lifestyle risk factors did not have a significant relationship with dyslipidaemia , hypertension and hyperglycaemia. Clustering patterns of lifestyle risk factors showed that younger men , with low education levels , and relying on a government pension , were most likely to display the poorest lifestyle risk behaviours. The largest cluster ( 42 %) of participants was characterised by a mixed demographic profile and were most likely to display poor nutrition and low physical activity levels but less likely to smoke. Only smoking status had a significant positive association with dyslipidaemia which could indicate that there are additional factors affecting the relationship between other cardiovascular lifestyle risk factors and dyslipidaemia , hypertension and hyperglycaemia in people with psychosis. Unknown confounders and traditional lifestyle risk factors may explain the high rates of CVD in this group. Clustering of lifestyle risk factors and their demographic profiles could help the design of intervention programs in people with psychosis.