  Deletions of 6q15-16.1 are recurrently found in pediatric T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia<disease> ( T-ALL). This chromosomal region includes the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 ( MAP3K7) gene which has a crucial role in innate immune signaling and was observed to be functionally and prognostically relevant in different cancer entities. Therefore , we correlated the presence of MAP3K7 deletions with clinical parameters in a cohort of 327 pediatric T-ALL patients and investigated the function of MAP3K7 in the T-ALL cell lines CCRF-CEM , Jurkat and MOLT-4. MAP3K7 deletions were detected by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification ( MLPA). T-ALL cell lines were transduced with adeno-associated virus ( AAV) vectors expressing anti-MAP3K7 shRNA or a non-silencing shRNA together with a GFP reporter. Transduction efficiency was measured by flow cytometry and depletion efficiency by RT-PCR and Western blots. Induction of apoptosis was measured by flow cytometry after staining with PE-conjugated Annexin V. In order to assess the contribution of NF-κB signaling to the effects of MAP3K7 depletion , cells were treated with TNF-α and cell lysates analyzed for components of the NF-κB pathway by Western blotting and for expression of the NF-κB target genes BCL2 , CMYC , FAS , PTEN and TNF-α by RT-PCR. MAP3K7 is deleted in approximately 10 % and point-mutated in approximately 1 % of children with T-ALL. In 32 of 33 leukemias<disease> the deletion of MAP3K7 also included the adjacent CASP8AP2 gene. MAP3K7 deletions were associated with the occurrence of SIL-TAL1 fusions and a mature immunophenotype , but not with response to treatment and outcome. Depletion of MAP3K7 expression in T-ALL cell lines by shRNAs slowed down proliferation and induced apoptosis , but neither changed protein levels of components of NF-κB signaling nor NF-κB target gene expression after stimulation with TNF-α. This study revealed that the recurrent deletion of MAP3K7/CASP8AP2 is associated with SIL-TAL1 fusions and a mature immunophenotype , but not with response to treatment and risk of relapse. Homozygous deletions of MAP3K7 were not observed , and efficient depletion of MAP3K7 interfered with viability of T-ALL cells , indicating that a residual expression of MAP3K7 is indispensable for T-lymphoblasts.