  Quality improvement in healthcare has often been promoted as different from and more valuable than peer review and other professional self-regulation processes. In spite of attempts to harmonize these two approaches , the perception of dichotomous opposition has persisted. A sequence of events in the troubled California prison system fortuitously isolated workforce interventions from more typical quality improvement interventions. Our objectives were to ( 1) evaluate the relative contributions of professional accountability and quality improvement interventions to an observed decrease in population mortality and ( 2) explore the organizational dynamics that potentiated positive outcomes. Our retrospective mixed-methods case study correlated time-series analysis of mortality with the timing of reform interventions. Quantitative and qualitative evidence was drawn from court documents , public use files , internal databases , and other archival documents. Change point analysis reveals with 98 % confidence that a significant improvement in age-adjusted natural mortality occurred in 2007 , decreasing from 138.7 per 100,000 in the 1998-2006 period to 106.4 in the 2007-2009 period. The improvement in mortality occurred after implementation of accountability processes , prior to implementation of quality improvement interventions. Archival evidence supports the positive impact of physician competency assessments , robust peer review , and replacement of problem physicians. Our analysis suggests that workforce accountability provides a critical quality safeguard , and its neglect in scholarship and practice is unjustified. As with quality improvement , effective professional self-regulation requires systemic implementation of enabling policies , processes , and staff resources. The study adds to evidence that the distribution of physician performance contains a heterogeneous left skew of dyscompetence that is associated with significant harm and suggests that professional self-regulation processes such as peer review can reduce that harm. Beyond their responsibility for direct harm , dyscompetent professionals can have negative impacts on group performance. The optimal integration of professional accountability and quality improvement systems merits further investigation.