  Acute myocardial infarction ( AMI) remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in modern medicine. Early reperfusion accomplished by primary percutaneous coronary intervention is pivotal for reducing myocardial damage in ST elevation AMI. However , restoration of coronary blood flow may paradoxically trigger cardiomyocyte death secondary to a reperfusion-induced inflammatory process , which may account for a significant proportion of the final infarct size. Unfortunately , recent human trials targeting myocardial ischemia/reperfusion ( I/R) injury have yielded disappointing results. In experimental models of myocardial I/R injury , the complement system , and in particular the lectin pathway , have been identified as major contributors. In line with this , C1 esterase inhibitor ( C1INH) , the natural inhibitor of the lectin pathway , was shown to significantly ameliorate myocardial I/R injury. However , the hypothesis of a considerable augmentation of myocardial I/R injury by activation of the lectin pathway has not yet been confirmed in humans , which questions the efficacy of a therapeutic strategy solely aimed at the inhibition of the lectin pathway after human AMI. Thus , as C1INH is a multiple-action inhibitor targeting several pathways and mediators simultaneously in addition to the lectin pathway , such as the contact and coagulation system and tissue leukocyte infiltration , this may be considered as being advantageous over exclusive inhibition of the lectin pathway. In this review , we summarize current concepts and evidence addressing the role of the lectin pathway as a potent mediator/modulator of myocardial I/R injury in animal models and in patients. In addition , we focus on the evidence and the potential advantages of using the natural inhibitor of the lectin pathway , C1INH , as a future therapeutic approach in AMI given its ability to interfere with several plasmatic cascades. Ameliorating myocardial I/R injury by targeting the complement system and other plasmatic cascades remains a valid option for future therapeutic interventions.