  Self-healing bituminous material has been a hot research topic in self-healing materials , and this smart self-healing approach is a promising a revolution in pavement material technology. Bitumen has a self-healing naturality relating to temperature , healing time , and aging degree. To date , heat induction and microencapsulation rejuvenator are two feasible approaches , which have been put into real applications. However , both methods have disadvantages limiting their practical results and efficiency. It will be an ideal method combining the advantages and avoiding the disadvantages of the above two methods at the same time. The aim of this work was to synthesize and characterize electrothermal self-healing microcapsules containing bituminous rejuvenator with graphene/organic nanohybrid structure shells. The microcapsules owned electric conductivity capability because of the advent of graphene , and realized the self-healing through the two approaches of heat induction and rejuvenation. The microcapsule shells were fabricated using a strength hexamethoxymethylmelamine ( HMMM) resin and graphene by two-step hybrid polymerization. Experimental tests were carried out to character the morphology , integrity , and shell structure. It was found that the electric charge balance<symptom> determined the graphene/HMMM microstructure. The graphene content in shells could not be greatly increased under an electrostatic balance<symptom> in emulsion. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy ( XPS) , Energy dispersive spectrometer ( EDS) , Transmission electron microscope ( TEM) and Atomic force microscopy ( AFM) results indicated that the graphene had deposited on shells. TGA/DTG tests implied that the thermal decomposition temperature of microcapsules with graphene had increased to about 350 & deg; C. The thermal conductivity of microcapsules had been sharply increased to about 8.0 W/m ² & middot; K with 2.0 wt % graphene in shells. At the same time , electrical resistivity of microcapsules/bitumen samples had a decrease with more graphene in bitumen.