  Food literacy refers to the capability to make healthy food choices in different contexts , settings and situations. The aim of this study is to develop and validate the self-perceived food literacy ( SPFL) scale , to assess individuals ' level of food literacy , including a knowledge , skills and behavior to plan , manage , select , prepare and eat food healthfully. An initial set of 50 items for the SPFL scale were generated based on expert insights and literature. A cross-sectional online survey was conducted among a sample of Dutch adults ( n = 755) in order to determine convergent , divergent and criterion validation against psychosocial variables that were expected to correlate with food literacy ( self-control , impulsiveness) and against the expected outcome of high food literacy , namely healthy food consumption. Principal Component Analyses ( PCA) , Pearson correlation tests and linear regression analyses were conducted. The capacity to distinguish of the SPFL scale was determined by comparing SPFL scores of the general population with that of a sample of dieticians ( n = 207). The participants in the general sample had an average age of 44.8 ( SD: 16.1) , the majority were women ( 90.7 %) , they had a healthy weight ( 61.4 %) and were highly educated ( 59.1 %). Of the initial 50 items , 29 items remained after PCA and reflected eight domains of food literacy. SPFL was positively correlated with self-control ( r = 0.51 , p = < .001) and negatively with impulsiveness ( r =- 0.31 , p = < .01). Participants with higher levels of food literacy reported a significantly higher frequency of fruit consumption ( ≥ 5 times/week) , vegetable consumption ( ≥ 5times/week) and fish consumption ( ≥ 1times/week) and consumed larger portions of fruit ( ≥ 2pieces/day) and vegetables ≥ 200 g/day) in comparison with participants who had lower levels of food literacy. Dieticians had slightly higher scores on SPFL than general adults ( B = 0.08 , SE = 0.03 , t = 2.83 , 95 %- CI = 0.03 to 0.14). The 29 item SPFL scale is a validated , expert-based and theory-driven tool for measuring self-perceived food literacy with respect to healthy eating among adults. Higher levels of food literacy were associated with more self-control , less impulsiveness and healthier food consumption. Additional research is needed to validate the SPFL scale in different populations ( different age groups , socioeconomic groups , male populations) and in different contexts.