  Major depression<symptom> is a highly prevalent condition. Its pathogenesis is related to a wide variety of biological and psychosocial factors and among these is factors related to lifestyle. Lifestyle-based interventions seem to be appropriate strategies as coadjutant treatment. The objective of this study is to explore and identify expectations and experiences of both patients and healthcare professionals that can point to the main barriers and facilitators with regard to the promotion of healthy dietary and hygiene behaviours in patients suffering from major depression<symptom> A qualitative design was used to collect information from a wide range of purposefully and theoretically guided samples of depressed patients and health professionals from Primary Care ( PC). Both in-depth interviews and discussion groups were used. A standardized protocol was designed to guide the interviews and groups , including the preparation of a topic list to be addressed , with previously tested , open suggestions that could be of interest. A thematic analysis was performed from grounded theory in order to explore , develop and define until saturation the emergent categories of analysis derived from the individual interview and group data. Both patients as well as PC professionals noted a series of central aspects with respect to the implementation of a programme for the acquisition of healthy dietary and hygiene habits for depressive patients , which may be organized around ` personal ' , ` programmatic ' , and ` transversal ' aspects. As for the personal aspects , categories regarding ` patient history ' , and ` disposition ' were found; the programmatic aspects included categories such as ` presentation and monitoring ' , and modification of ` cognitive ' and ` behavioural ' habits; whereas the transversal aspects comprised the possibilities of ` social support ' and defining categories of ` objectives '. The implementation of intervention programmes that combine dietary and hygiene-related factors in patients with depression<symptom> is complex , given the nature of the disorder itself , and its symptoms such as apathy and feelings of guilt or incompetence. Key issues exist for the success of the intervention , such as the simplicity of guidelines , tailoring through motivational interviewing , prolonged and intense monitoring throughout the different stages of the disorder , and the provision of adequate feedback and social support. PC could be an appropriate level in which to implement these interventions.