  One of the greatest challenges in nutritional epidemiology is improving upon traditional self-reporting methods for the assessment of habitual dietary intake. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of a new method known as the current-day dietary recall ( or current-day recall) , based on a smartphone app called 12-hour dietary recall , for determining the habitual intake of a series of key food and drink groups using a food frequency questionnaire ( FFQ) and four dietary records as reference methods. University students over the age of 18 years recorded their consumption of certain groups of food and drink using 12-hour dietary recall for 28 consecutive days. During this 28-day period , they also completed four dietary records on randomly selected days. Once the monitoring period was over , subjects then completed an FFQ. The two methods were compared using the Spearman correlation coefficient ( SCC) , a cross-classification analysis , and weighted kappa. A total of 87 participants completed the study ( 64 % women , 56/87; 36 % men , 31/87). For e-12HR versus FFQ , for all food and drink groups , the average SCC was 0.70. Cross-classification analysis revealed that the average percentage of individuals classified in the exact agreement category was 51.5 %; exact agreement + adjacent was 91.8 % , and no participant ( 0 %) was classified in the extreme disagreement category. The average weighted kappa was 0.51. For e-12HR versus the four dietary records , for all food and drink groups , the average SCC was 0.63. Cross-classification analysis revealed that the average percentage of individuals classified in the exact agreement category was 47.1 %; exact agreement + adjacent was 89.2 %; and no participant ( 0 %) was classified in the extreme disagreement category. The average weighted kappa was 0.47. Current-day recall , based on the 12-hour dietary recall app , was found to be in good agreement with the two reference methods ( FFQ & four dietary records) , demonstrating its potential usefulness for categorizing individuals according to their habitual dietary intake of certain food and drink groups.