  Common carp Cyprinus carpio is an important food fish in Central Europe , which in some regions is consumed as part of local tradition. The majority of carp are sold by small retailers and not processed in commercial processing plants. The overall objective of this study was to monitor how animal welfare is safeguarded during the stunning and slaughtering of carp for retail sale. For this , the stunning and slaughtering process was monitored on 12 carp farms. Four welfare-related parameters were assessed: ( i) stunning success , ( ii) injuries related to the applied stunning method , ( iii) time between stunning and slaughter , and ( iv) visible responses of carp during slaughtering. In addition , indicators of physiological stress were measured. In order to analyse whether the absence of behavioural indicators of consciousness<symptom> after electrical stunning was correlated with unconsciousness a complementary laboratory study was performed. Here , carp were exposed to electrical current densities between 0.09 and 0.41 A/dm The carp farms applied manual percussive ( 18 %) or electrical ( 23 %) stunning methods , while the majority of farms used a combination of electrical stunning immediately followed by manual percussive stunning ( 59 %). In the latter condition , 92.6 % of stunned carp displayed no behavioural indicators of consciousness<symptom> and significantly fewer injuries related to mishits compared to sole percussive stunning. In the laboratory study , behavioural indicators of consciousness<symptom> recovered in carp between 1 and 9 min following removal of the electrical current. However , VER could be recorded already at 30 ± 8 s post stunning. This indicates a fast recovery of carp from electrical stunning when exposed to current densities in the range of those generated by commercially available stunning instruments for fish. Under field conditions , percussion ( applied manually) and electrical stunning might be poor inducers of unconsciousness before slaughter , while a combination was most effective. In order to undertake improvements in electrical stunning , further investigations into the current density , required for inducing prolonged insensibility in carp during electrical stunning , are needed.