  Renal cell carcinoma associated with Xp11 .2 translocations/TFE3 gene fusions is a rare subtype of renal cell carcinoma. This predominantly occurs in juveniles , but rarely seen in adults with lymph node or organic metastasis and a worsened prognosis. Herein , we presented 3 adult cases of Xp11-RCC. Two patients were in early stage and good condition , and the third patient had lymph node metastasis but showed no recurrence after a 3-month follow-up. Case 1: A 50-year-old female without any lumbago and gross hematuria<symptom> was incidentally detected by left renal mass by ultrasonography. Case 2: A 31-year-old female with 2-year hemodialysis was detected with right<symptom> renal carcinoma during preoperative examination of renal transplant. Case 3: A 45-year-old male with right lumbago for 1 month was detected with a mass in the lower pole of right kidney by ultrasonography. The characteristics of these 3 images are not consistent with each other , and showed some differences with the previous ones. All these 3 patients underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy , and case 1 patient underwent renal hilar lymphnode dissection at the same time. Immunohistochemistry was performed on all the 3 tumors , revealing that the tumor cells were positive for TFE3 and Melan-A. Case 1 showed lymph node metastasis , and received mTOR inhibitors. The 3 patients had no recurrent and new metastasis in other organs after follow-up for 3 months , 2 months , and 11 months , respectively. Whether the adult-onset Xp-RCC has an aggressive clinical course still remains controversial. Characteristics of the images of the 3 adult cases showed some uniformity but still have some differences. Immunohistochemistry results revealed tumor cell positive for TFE3 , but have no consistency in carbonic anhydrase IX , CD117 , Ki67 , CK8/18 AE1/AE3 and so on. Therefore , the uniform and definitive diagnostic standards of the tumors are uncertain. Hence , more cases and findings are required to elaborate the standards of all the tumor subtypes. Vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy showed some efficacious results in patients with metastasis , but more useful treatments are warranted.