  The anomaly of cervical aortic arch is a rare phenomenon first described by Reid in 1914 and categorized by Haughton in 1975. The left cervical aortic arch Type D consisting of an ipsilateral descending aorta and coarctation or aneurysmatic formation of the arch demonstrates a complicated form requiring surgical management. Because of its rarity and unspecific symptoms only few cases are documented with the focus on surgical management. A 43-year old , asymptomatic woman presented with a mediastinal mass overlapping the aortic arch region in a routine x-ray. For verification , a computed tomography was performed and revealed incidentally a type B dissection originating from an aneurysm<disease> of a left cervical arch with a maximum diameter of 6 cm. Because of the huge diameter and the potential risk of rupture , an urgent surgical repair was planned. Surgical access was performed through median sternotomy and an additional left lateral thoracic incision through the fourth intercostal space. Simultaneously to the preparation , partial cardiopulmonary bypass was installed in the left groin. After preparation of the recurrent and phrenic nerve and the supraaortic branches , the descending aorta was clamped. Before the distal anastomosis to a straight graft , we performed a fenestration of the dissection membrane about a length of 5 cm to preserve the perfusion of both lumina. Then , the straight graft was sutured to the proximal part of descending aorta. The left axillary artery originated directly from the aneurysm<disease> and was dissected and reimplanted with a separate 8 mm sidegraft to the straight graft between the distal arch and proximal descending aorta. The patient was extubated on first postoperative day and recovered well. The left cervical aortic arch type D is a rare disease , which is prone to aneurysm<disease> formation due to abnormal flow patterns and tortuosity of the aorta. The difficulty lays in the identification of the pathology , especially in the physical examination , since a pulsating mass or cervical murmur seem to be the most specific symptoms in the majority of young , female patients. If diagnosed , surgical therapy with resection of the aneurysm<disease> and reimplantation of the axillary artery under cardiopulmonary bypass demonstrates the treatment of choice.