  Total knee arthroplasty ( TKA) is a highly effective procedure that yields reductions in pain and disability associated with end stage osteoarthritis ( OA) of the knee. Quality of life instruments are frequently used to gauge the outcomes of total knee arthroplasty ( TKA). However , research suggests that post-TKA reductions in symptom severity may not be the sole predictors of quality of life post-TKA. The primary objective of the present study was to examine the prognostic value of catastrophic thinking in health-related quality of life ( HRQoL) judgments in patients with severe OA after TKA. In this study we used a prospective cohort design to examine the value of pain catastrophizing in predicting HRQoL 1 year after TKA. Participants with advanced OA of the knee who were scheduled for TKA were recruited at one of three hospitals in Canada. The study sample consisted of 116 individuals ( 71 women , 45 men) who completed study questionnaires at their pre-surgical evaluation and 1 year after surgery. Hierarchical regression analysis was used to assess the unique contribution of pre-surgical pain catastrophizing to the prediction of post-surgical HRQoL judgments. The results of the hierarchical regression equation revealed that the overall model was significant , F ( 9,106) = 8.3 , p < 001 , and accounted for 36.4 % of the variance in the prediction of post-surgical physical component score of HRQoL. Pain catastrophizing was entered in the last step of the equation and contributed significant unique variance ( β = -.35 , p < .001) to the prediction of post-surgical physical component score of HRQoL above and beyond the variance accounted for by demographic variables , co-morbid health conditions , baseline HRQoL , and post-surgical reductions in pain , joint stiffness and physical disability. The current findings highlight the importance of pre-surgical catastrophic cognitions in influencing HRQoL judgments after TKA. The findings suggest that psychosocial interventions designed to reduce pain catastrophizing before TKA might contribute to better quality of life outcomes following surgery.