  Studies on persistence of benzodiazepine agonist ( BZDA) withdrawal in older outpatients are few , and few studies on long-term persistence over years have yet been published. To describe the persistence of temazepam , zolpidem , and zopiclone ( BZDA) withdrawal among older outpatients at 3 years from the beginning of withdrawal , as well as any changes in use of other medications. 92 outpatients ( ≥ 55 years) with primary insomnia , long-term BZDA use as hypnotics ( mean duration of BZDA use 9.9 ± 6.2 years) , and willingness to withdraw from BZDAs each received either melatonin or a placebo nightly for one month. During this period , BZDAs were meant to be gradually withdrawn. Sleep hygiene counselling and psychosocial support were provided. Three years later , use of BZDAs and other medications was determined by interview and confirmed from medical records. Of the original 92 outpatients , 83 ( 90 %) participated in the 3-year survey ( mean follow-up 3.3 ± 0.2 years). The number of BZDA-free participants decreased from 34 ( 37 %) at 6 months to 26 ( 28 %; intention-to-treat) at 3 years , that of irregular BZDA users decreased from 44 ( 48 %) at 6 months to 27 ( 29 %) at 3 years , while that of regular users increased from 11 ( 12 %) at 6 months to 30 ( 33 %) at 3 years ( P = 0.001). Those who were regular BZDA users at 3 years had at baseline ( before withdrawal) higher BMI ( P = 0.001) than did other participants. At 3 years , the total number of medications remained unchanged for non-users ( P = 0.432) , but increased for the irregular ( P = 0.011) and regular users ( P = 0.026) compared to baseline. At 3 years , compared to baseline , use of antidepressants , dopamine agonists , melatonin , and NSAIDs/paracetamol was significantly more common in the whole cohort , but their use did not differ between the BZDA-user subgroups. Randomization to melatonin or placebo during BZDA withdrawal was unrelated to BZDA-withdrawal result. At 3 years after withdrawal , the number of BZDA-free participants had decreased , but still one-third of the subjects remained BZDA-free , and one-third had reduced their use. Successful BZDA withdrawal did not lead to any increase in total number of medications; use of symptomatic medications in the whole cohort , however , did increase.