  The aim of this study was to identify the effects of a complementary training program based on differential learning approach in the physical , technical , creative and positioning performance of youth football attackers. Fifteen players were allocated into the control ( U15C = 9 , age: 13.9 ± 0.5 years; U17C = 6 , age: 16.1 ± 0.7 years) and the experimental ( U15E = 9 , age: 14.2 ± 0.8 years; U17E = 6 , age: 15.8 ± 0.5 years) groups. The experimental groups participated in 10-weeks of a complementary training program based on differential learning approach to improve physical literacy and players ' tactical behavior. Variables studied encompassed: motor ( vertical jump , speed and repeated change-of direction) , technical ( pass , dribble and shot) , creative ( fluency , attempts , versatility) and positioning-related variables ( stretch index , spatial exploration index and regularity of the lateral and longitudinal movements). Results revealed that U15E improved both the jump and repeated change-of-direction performance , while the U17E have only improved the jump performance. The U15E showed improvements in all technical variables ( small to large effects) , and in the fluency and versatility ( moderate effects) , while the U17 have only improved the successful shots ( large effects). From a positional perspective , there was a moderate increase in the stretch index , and decreased longitudinal and lateral regularity ( small to moderate effects) in the U15E compared to the U15C. In turn , the U17E revealed a moderate increase of the spatial exploration index and a small decrease in the stretch index. Overall , the results suggest that the complementary training program was effective for the development of the overall performance of the U15E attackers , while more time and/or variability may be needed for older age groups. Nevertheless , the overall higher values found in experimental groups , may suggest that this type of complementary training program improves performance.