  This study aimed at exploring the prevalence of self-reported antenatal and postnatal depressive symptoms by severity across multiple countries and the association between antidepressant treatment in pregnancy and postnatal symptom severity. This was a multinational web-based study conducted across 12 European countries ( n = 8069). Uniform data collection was ensured via an electronic questionnaire. Pregnant women at any gestational week and mothers of children with < 1 year of age could participate. We used the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression<symptom> Scale ( EPDS) to measure the prevalence of antenatal and postnatal depressive symptoms according to severity , which were corrected by survey weight adjustment ( descriptive analysis). Within mothers with a psychiatric disorder ( n = 173) , we estimated the association between antidepressant treatment in pregnancy and postnatal depressive symptom severity , as standardized EPDS mean scores , via the inverse probability of treatment weight ( association analysis). In the descriptive analysis ( n = 8069) , the period prevalence of moderate-to-very severe depressive symptoms was higher in the western and eastern regions relative to the northern region , both in the antenatal period ( 6.8 % -7.5 % vs 4.3 %) and in the postnatal period ( 7.6 % vs 4.7 %). One in two mothers with psychiatric disorders used an antidepressant in pregnancy ( 86 of 173). In the association analysis , women medicated at any time during pregnancy ( adjusted β = -0.34 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI) = -0.66 , -0.02) had a significant postnatal symptom severity reduction compared with the nonmedicated counterpart. This effect was larger ( β = -0.74 , 95 % CI = -1.24 , -0.24) when the analysis was restricted to mothers within 6 months after childbirth. The prevalence of self-reported antenatal and postnatal depressive symptoms differs across European countries. Among women with psychiatric disorders , those who had been on treatment with antidepressants during pregnancy were less likely to report postnatal depressive symptoms , particularly within the 6-month period after childbirth , compared with the nonmedicated counterpart.