  Monoclonal antibodies blocking the Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 ( CTLA-4) receptor have revolutionized the field of anti-cancer therapy for the last few years. The human T-cell-based immune responses are modulated by two contradicting signals. CTLA-4 provides a T cell inhibitory signal through its interaction with B7 ligands ( B7-1 and B7-2) , while CD28 provides a stimulatory signal when interacting with the same ligands. A previous theoretical model has focused on understanding the processes of costimulatory and inhibitory complex formations at the synapse. Nevertheless , the effects of monoclonal antibody ( mAb)- mediation on these complexes are relatively unexplored. In this work , we expand on the previous model to develop a new mathematical framework for studying the effects of anti-CTLA-4 mAbs on the co-stimulatory ( CD28/B7 ligands) and the co-inhibitory ( CTLA-4/ B7 ligands) complex formation at the immunological synapse. In particular , we focus on two promising anti-CTLA-4 mAbs , tremelimumab ( from AstraZeneca) and ipilimumab ( from Bristol-Myers Squibb) , which are currently in clinical trials and the market , respectively , for targeting multiple tumors. The mathematical model in this work has been constructed based on ordinary differential equations and available experimental binding kinetics data for the anti-CTLA-4 antibodies from literature. The numerical simulations from the current model are in agreement with a number of experimental data. Especially , the dose-curves for blocking the B7 ligand binding to CTLA-4 by ipilimumab are comparable with the results from a previous competitive binding assay by flow cytometry and ELISA. Our simulations predict the dose response and the relative efficacies of the two mAbs in blocking the inhibitory CTLA-4/ B7 complexes. The results show that different factors , such as multivalent interactions , mobility of molecules and competition effects , could impact the effects of antibody-mediation. The results , in particular , describe that the competitive effects could impact the dose-dependent inhibition by the mAbs very significantly. We present this model as a useful tool that can easily be translated to study the effects of any anti-CTLA-4 antibodies on immunological synaptic complex formation , provided reliable biophysical data for mAbs are available.