  Therapeutic patient education ( TPE) improves quality of life and reduces health care utilization among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD). However , benefits from TPE might depend on the performance of the educators and training is needed to ensure the effective delivery of TPE interventions. Based on the framework by Moore et al. ( J Contin Educ Health Prof 29:1-15 , 2009) , we will compare the impact of two continuing education ( CE) activities on TPE in regard to the following educational outcomes: ( 1) learning , ( 2) self-report of competence , ( 3) performance of the educators , and ( 4) outcomes of COPD patients who will meet the newly trained educators for TPE. We will conduct a non-randomized controlled study using mixed methods. Educators will first participate in a CE activity on TPE that will include a role-playing simulation ( experimental group) or in a lecture on TPE ( comparison group) and then will perform TPE in COPD patients. Among educators , we will assess: ( 1) learning , by measuring knowledge about TPE , and ( 2) self-report of competence using self-administered questionnaires before and after the activity. Then , after the CE activity , we will assess ( 3) educators ' performance levels in delivering TPE by rating a videotaped TPE intervention. In COPD patients who will meet the newly trained educators for TPE after either CE activity , we will assess ( 4) quality of life and resource utilization using interviewer-administered questionnaires , before and after TPE. Statistical analyses will compare the experimental group against the comparison group using multivariate models. Using a semi-structured interview guide , we will conduct interviews with educators and perform content analysis. Results will be integrated in order that qualitative results further explain the quantitative ones. To the best of our knowledge , this is the first controlled mixed methods study to compare the impact of two CE activities on TPE in regard to four educational outcomes. We believe this study will serve as a model for evaluating CE activities on TPE. Results from this study could increase educators ' performance levels in delivering effective TPE interventions , and , in turn , COPD patient outcomes. The study was registered on https://clinicaltrials.gov/ ( NCT02870998) on March 15 , 2016.