  Secondary forest<disease> habitats are increasingly recognized for their potential to conserve biodiversity in the tropics. However , the development of faunal assemblages in secondary forest<disease> systems varies according to habitat quality and species-specific traits. In this study , we predicted that the recovery of bird assemblages is dependent on secondary forest<disease> age and level of isolation , the forest<disease> stratum examined , and the species ' traits of feeding guild and body mass. This study was undertaken in secondary forests in central Panama; spanning a chronosequence of 60- , 90- , and 120-year-old forests , and in neighboring old-growth forest<disease>. To give equal attention to all forest<disease> strata , we employed a novel method that paired simultaneous surveys in canopy and understory. This survey method provides a more nuanced picture than ground-based studies , which are biased toward understory assemblages. Bird reassembly varied according to both habitat age and isolation , although it was challenging to separate these effects , as the older sites were also more isolated than the younger sites. In combination , habitat age and isolation impacted understory birds more than canopy-dwelling birds. Proportions of dietary guilds did not vary with habitat age , but were significantly different between strata. Body mass distributions were similar across forest<disease> ages for small-bodied birds , but older forest<disease> supported more large-bodied birds , probably due to control of poaching at these sites. Canopy assemblages were characterized by higher species richness , and greater variation in both dietary breadth and body mass , relative to understory assemblages. The results highlight that secondary forests may offer critical refugia for many bird species , particularly specialist canopy-dwellers. However , understory bird species may be less able to adapt to novel and isolated habitats and should be the focus of conservation efforts encouraging bird colonization of secondary forests.