  Many patients with advanced cancer receive chemotherapy close to death and are referred too late to palliative or hospice care , and therefore die under therapy or in intensive care units. Oncologists still have difficulties in involving patients appropriately in decisions about limiting tumor-specific or life-prolonging treatment. The aim of this Ethics Policy for Advanced Care Planning and Limiting Treatment Study is to develop an ethical guideline for end-of-life decisions and to evaluate the impact of this guideline on clinical practice regarding the following target goals: reduction of decisional conflicts , improvement of documentation transparency and traceability , reduction of distress of the caregiver team , and better knowledge and consideration of patients ' preferences. This is a protocol for a pre-post interventional study that analyzes the clinical practice on treatment limitation before and after the guideline implementation. An embedded researcher design with a mixed-method approach encompassing both qualitative and quantitative methods is used. The study consists of three stages: ( 1) the preinterventional phase , ( 2) the intervention ( development and implementation of the guideline) , and 3) the postinterventional phase ( evaluation of the guideline 's impact on clinical practice). We evaluate the process of decision-making related to limiting treatment from different perspectives of oncologists , nurses , and patients; comparing them to each other will allow us to develop the guideline based on the interests of all parties. The first preintervention data of the project have already been published , which detailed a qualitative study with oncologists and oncology nurses ( n = 29) , where different approaches to initiation of end-of-life discussions were ethically weighted. A framework for oncologists was elaborated , and the study favored an anticipatory approach of preparing patients for forgoing therapy throughout the course of disease. Another preimplementational study of current decision-making practice ( n = 567 patients documented) demonstrated that decisions to limit treatment preceded the death of many cancer patients ( 62/76 , 82 % of deceased patients). However , such decisions were usually made in the last week of life , which was relatively late. The intervention will be evaluated with respect to the following endpoints: better knowledge and consideration of patients ' treatment wishes; reduction of decisional conflicts; improvement of documentation transparency and traceability; and reduction of the psychological and moral distress of a caregiver team. RR1-10.2196/ 9698.