  Plants have a diverse endophytic microbiome that is functionally important for their growth , development , and health. In this study , the diversity and specificity of culturable endophytic fungal communities were explored in one of the most important biofuel crops , switchgrass plants ( Panicum virgatum L.) , which have been cultivated on a reclaimed coal-mining site for more than 20 years. The endophytic fungi<pathogen> were isolated from the surface-sterilized shoot ( leaf and stem) , root , and seed tissues of switchgrass plants and then cultured for identification. A total of 1339 fungal isolates were found and 22 operational taxonomic units ( OTUs) were sequence identified by internal transcribed spacer ( ITS) primers and grouped into 7 orders and 4 classes. Although a diverse range of endophytic fungi<pathogen> associated with switchgrass were documented , the most abundant class , order , and species were Sordariomycetes , Hypocreales , and Fusarium<pathogen> spp. respectively. About 86 % of the isolated endophytic fungi<pathogen> were able to enhance the heights of the shoots; 69 % could increase the shoot fresh weights; and 62 % could improve the shoot dry weights after being reintroduced back into the switchgrass plants , which illustrated their functional importance. Through the Shannon Diversity Index analysis , we observed a gradation of species diversity , with shoots and roots having the similar values and seeds having a lesser value. It was observed that the switchgrass plants showing better growth performance displayed higher endophytic fungal species diversity and abundance. It was also discovered that the rhizosphere soil organic matter content was positively correlated with the fungal species diversity. All these data demonstrate the functional association of these beneficial endophytic fungi<pathogen> with switchgrass and their great potential in improving the switchgrass growth and biomass to benefit the biofuel industry by reducing chemical inputs and burden to the environment.