  Polypharmacy is an increasing challenge for primary care. Although sometimes clinically justified , polypharmacy can be inappropriate , leading to undesirable outcomes. Optimising care for polypharmacy necessitates effective targeting and monitoring of interventions. This requires a valid , reliable measure of polypharmacy , relevant for all patients , that considers clinical appropriateness and generic prescribing issues applicable across all medications. Whilst there are several existing measures of potentially inappropriate prescribing , these are not specifically designed with polypharmacy in mind , can require extensive clinical input to complete , and often cover a limited number of drugs. The aim of this study was to identify what experts consider to be the key elements of a measure of prescribing appropriateness in the context of polypharmacy. Firstly , we conducted a systematic review to identify generic ( not drug specific) prescribing indicators relevant to polypharmacy appropriateness. Indicators were subject to content analysis to enable categorisation. Secondly , we convened a panel of 10 clinical experts to review the identified indicators and assess their relative clinical importance. For each indicator category , a brief evidence summary was developed , based on relevant clinical and indicator literature , clinical guidance , and opinions obtained from a separate patient discussion panel. A two-stage RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method was used to reach consensus amongst the panel on a core set of indicators of polypharmacy appropriateness. We identified 20,879 papers for title/abstract screening , obtaining 273 full papers. We extracted 189 generic indicators , and presented 160 to the panel grouped into 18 classifications ( e.g. adherence , dosage , clinical efficacy). After two stages , during which the panel introduced 18 additional indicators , there was consensus that 134 indicators were of clinical importance. Following the application of decision rules and further panel consultation , 12 indicators were placed into the final selection. Panel members particularly valued indicators concerned with adverse drug reactions , contraindications , drug-drug interactions , and the conduct of medication reviews. We have identified a set of 12 indicators of clinical importance considered relevant to polypharmacy appropriateness. Use of these indicators in clinical practice and informatics systems is dependent on their operationalisation and their utility ( e.g. risk stratification , targeting and monitoring polypharmacy interventions) requires subsequent evaluation. Registration number: PROSPERO ( CRD42016049176).