  Chronic low-grade inflammation<symptom> and associated insulin resistance and metabolic abnormalities have been proposed as ` common soil ' for diabetes mellitus ( DM) and cardiovascular disease ( CVD). This paper aimed to investigate the inflammatory profiles of DM and CVD and to distinguish their shared and specific markers. Based on the Malmö Diet and Cancer cohort , total and differential leukocyte counts were measured in 25,969 participants without previous DM or CVD and were studied in relation to incident DM ( mean follow-up 17.4 ± 5.58 years) and incident CVD ( i.e. , coronary events , including fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction , or stroke); mean follow-up 17.7 ± 5.46 years , using multivariable Cox regression models. Furthermore , plasma concentrations of another seven inflammatory markers were examined in relation to incident DM and incident CVD in a sub-cohort of 4658 participants. The associations of each inflammatory marker with incident DM versus incident CVD were compared using the Lunn-McNeil competing risks approach. In sensitivity analyses , those who developed both DM and CVD during follow-up were excluded. After adjustment for conventional risk factors , total and differential leukocyte counts , orosomucoid , and C-reactive protein were associated with an increased risk of both DM and CVD. Neutrophil to lymphocyte<symptom> ratio , ceruloplasmin , alpha1-antitrypsin and soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor predicted increased risk of CVD but not DM , while haptoglobin and complement C3 showed the opposite pattern. In competing risks analyses , lymphocyte<symptom> count and complement C3 had stronger associations with risk of DM than with risk of CVD ( p for equal associations = 0.020 and 0.006). The reverse was true for neutrophil to lymphocyte<symptom> ratio ( p for equal associations = 0.025). Results were consistent in sensitivity analyses. The results indicated substantial similarities in the inflammatory profiles associated with DM and CVD. However , there are also significant differences. These findings may help discriminate between individuals at elevated risk of DM and those at elevated risk of CVD , which is a prerequisite for targeted therapies.