  Although nutrition interventions are a widely accepted resource for the prevention of long-term health conditions , current approaches have not adequately reduced chronic<disease> disease<disease> morbidity. Nutrigenomics has great potential; however , it is complicated to implement. There is a need for products based on nutrition-related gene test results that are easily understood , accessible , and used. The primary objective of this study was to compare a nonpractitioner-assisted direct-to-consumer self-driven approach to nutrigenomics versus an integrated and personalized practitioner-led method. This 4-month study used a mixed-methods design that included ( 1) a phase 1 randomized controlled trial that examined the effectiveness of a multifaceted , nutrition-based gene test ( components assessed included major nutrients , food tolerances , food taste and preferences , and micronutrients) in changing health behaviors , followed by ( 2) a qualitative investigation that explored participants ' experiences. The study recruited 55 healthy males and females ( aged 35-55 years) randomized as a 2:1 ratio where 36 received the intervention ( gene test results plus integrated and personalized nutrition report) and 19 were assigned to the control group ( gene test results report emailed). The primary outcomes of interest measures included changes in diet ( nutrients , healthy eating index) , changes in measures on General Self-efficacy and Health-Related Quality of Life scales , and anthropometrics ( body mass index , waist-to-hip ratio) measured at baseline , post intervention ( 3 and 6 weeks) , and the final visit ( week 9 post intervention). Of the 478 individuals who expressed interest , 180 were invited ( 37.7 % , 180/478) and completed the eligibility screening questionnaire; 73 of the 180 invited individuals ( 40.5 %) were deemed eligible. Of the 73 individuals who were deemed to be eligible , 58 completed the baseline health questionnaire and food records ( 79 %). Of these 58 individuals , 3 were excluded either because they did not complete all required data collection forms or were later found to be ineligible. The final sample ( n = 55) was mostly female ( 75 %) , married ( 85 %) , and those who had completed postsecondary education ( 62 %). This study will leverage quantitative and qualitative findings , which will guide the development of nutrigenomics-based products in electronic formats that are user-friendly for consumers and health professionals. Although the quantitative data have not been analyzed yet , the overwhelming interest in the study and the extremely high retention rate show that there is a great degree of interest in this field. Given this interest and the fact that nutrigenomics is an evolving science , a need for continued research exists to further the understanding of the role of genetic variation and its role and applications in nutrition practice. Clinicaltrials.gov NCT03310814; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03310814 ( Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6yGnU5deB). RR1-10.2196/ 9846.