  Prime focus of this study was to evaluate the availability and affordability of originator brands ( OBs) and lowest price generics ( LPGs) of prescribed biologic and non-biologic anticancer medicines. A descriptive , cross-sectional survey was conducted in 22 cancer-care hospitals ( 18 public hospitals and 4 private hospitals) and 44 private pharmacies in Punjab , Pakistan. Sampling population consisted of 4483 patients with cancer aged ≥ 18 years. The availability was determined by classifying anticancer medicines in four categories: absent/unavailability ( medicines not present in any surveyed facility) , low availability ( medicines present in < 50 % of surveyed facilities) , fairly high availability ( medicines present in 50 % -74 % of surveyed facilities) and high availability ( medicines present in > 75 % of surveyed facilities). Medicines were affordable if overall cost of all the prescribed anticancer medicines were 20 % of the household capacity to pay. Data were analysed by using Statistical Packages for Social Sciences ( IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows , V. 21.0). A total of 5060 patients with cancer were approached out of which 4483 patients were included in the survey. Overall , 10103 anticancer drugs were prescribed. Among them , 96.3 % were non-biologics and 3.7 % were biologics. Oncologists were reluctant to prescribe biologics due to high prices. 58.1 % of non-biologics were affordable; whereas , the affordability of biologics was 3.3 %. A total of 43.9 % of both biologic and non-biologic OBs were available; whereas , their affordability was 44.2 %. On the other hand , the availability of LPGs was 21.3 % , and their affordability was 66.1 %. For low-income patients , the affordability of non-biologics was 31.6 % and the affordability of biologics was 1.1 %. Most of the patients with cancer were prescribed non-biologics due to their low price and better affordability. In contrast to OBs , LPGs of both biologics and non-biologics had less availability but more affordability.