  Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC) have gained credibility as a therapeutic tool partly due to their potential to secrete factors such as cytokines and chemokines. Recently , exosomes , which mediate intercellular communication by delivering biomolecules such as mRNA and miRNA into recipient cells , have gained attention as a new and valuable therapeutic strategy in regenerative medicine. However , the potential role of exosomes secreted by adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( adMSC-Exos) in collagen metabolism is not well understood. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of adMSC-Exos on collagen metabolism in cultured fibroblasts from women with stress urinary incontinence ( SUI). Periurethral vaginal wall tissues of postmenopausal women with or without SUI were collected during transvaginal surgical procedures. Primary fibroblasts were cultured from periurethral vaginal wall tissues , and the levels of type I collagen mRNA and protein were examined by qRT-PCR and western blotting. MSC were isolated from human adipose tissue by enzymatic digestion. Exosomes were prepared by ultracentrifugation of adMSC-conditioned medium ( adMSC-CM) and were confirmed by transmission electron microscopy and western blot analyses. The effects of adMSC-CM and adMSC-Exos were assessed using qRT-PCR and western blotting. The type I collagen content was significantly decreased in periurethral vaginal wall tissues and cultured vaginal fibroblasts from women with SUI. adMSC-CM increased the expression of the col1a1 gene in vaginal fibroblasts from women with SUI. adMSC-Exos could be successfully isolated from adMSC-CM and could be transferred to fibroblasts efficiently. adMSC-Exos increased the expression of col1a1 in vaginal fibroblasts from women with SUI , and when the fibroblasts were treated with adMSC-Exos , the expression levels of TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 in fibroblasts were upregulated , with significant downregulation of MMP-1 and MMP-2 expression levels. adMSC-Exos increased type I collagen contents by increasing collagen synthesis and decreasing collagen degradation in vaginal fibroblasts from women with SUI. adMSC-Exos may be a novel therapeutic approach for treating SUI.