  Kaempferia parviflora ( KP) is an herb found in the north of Thailand and used as a folk medicine for improving vitality. Current reports have shown the anti-cancer activities of KP. However , the anti-cancer effects of KP on highly aggressive ovarian cancer have not been investigated. Therefore , we determined the effects of KP on cell proliferation , migration , and cell death in SKOV3 cells. Ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 was used to investigate the anti-cancer effect of KP extract. Cell viability , cell proliferation , MMP activity , cell migration , and invasion were measured by MTT assay , cell counting , gelatin zymography , wound<disease> healing assay , and Transwell migration and invasion assays , respectively. Cell death was determined by trypan blue exclusion test , AnnexinV/PI with flow cytometry , and nuclear staining. The level of ERK and AKT phosphorylation , and caspase-3 , caspase-7 , caspase-9 was investigated by western blot analysis. KP extract was cytotoxic to SKOV3 cells when the concentration was increased , and this effect could still be observed even though EGF was present. Besides , the cell doubling time was significantly prolonged in the cells treated with KP. Moreover , KP strongly suppressed cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion. These consequences may be associated with the ability of KP in inhibiting the activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9 assayed by gelatin zymography. Moreover , KP at high concentrations could induce SKOV3 cell apoptosis demonstrated by AnnexinV/PI staining and flow cytometry. Consistently , nuclear labelling of cells treated with KP extract showed DNA fragmentation and deformity. The induction of caspase-3 , caspase-7 , and caspase-9 indicates that KP induces cell death through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. The antitumor activities of KP might be regulated through PI3K/AKT and MAPK pathways since the phosphorylation of AKT and ERK1/2 was reduced. The inhibitory effects of KP in cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion together with apoptotic cell death induction in SKOV3 cells suggest that KP has a potential to be a new candidate for ovarian cancer chemotherapeutic agent.