  Mutations in USH2A cause both isolated Retinitis Pigmentosa ( RP) and Usher syndrome<disease> ( that implies RP and hearing impairment). One of the most frequent variants identified in this gene and among these patients is the p. ( Cys759Phe) change. However , the pathogenic role of this allele has been questioned since it was found in homozygosity in two healthy siblings of a Spanish family. To assess the causative role of USH2A p. ( Cys759Phe) in autosomal recessive RP ( ARRP) and Usher syndrome<disease> type II ( USH2) and to establish possible genotype-phenotype correlations associated with p. ( Cys759Phe) , we performed a comprehensive genetic and clinical study in patients suffering from any of the two above-mentioned diseases and carrying at least one p. ( Cys759Phe) allele. Diagnosis was set according to previously reported protocols. Genetic analyses were performed by using classical molecular and Next-Generation Sequencing approaches. Probands of 57 unrelated families were molecularly studied and 63 patients belonging to these families were phenotypically evaluated. Molecular analysis characterized 100 % of the cases , identifying: 11 homozygous patients for USH2A p. ( Cys759Phe) , 42 compound heterozygous patients ( 12 of them with another missense USH2A pathogenic variant and 30 with a truncating USH2A variant) , and 4 patients carrying the p. ( Cys759Phe) allele and a pathogenic variant in another RP gene ( PROM1 , CNGB1 or RP1). No additional causative variants were identified in symptomatic homozygous patients. Statistical analysis of clinical differences between zygosity states yielded differences ( p ≤ 0.05) in age at diagnosis of RP and hypoacusis , and progression of visual field loss. Homozygosity of p. ( Cys759Phe) and compound heterozygosity with another USH2A missense variant is associated with ARRP or ARRP plus late onset hypoacusis ( OR = 20.62 , CI = 95 % , p = 0.041). The present study supports the role of USH2A p. ( Cys759Phe) in ARRP and USH2 pathogenesis , and demonstrates the clinical differences between different zygosity states. Phenotype-genotype correlations may guide the genetic characterization based upon specific clinical signs and may advise on the clinical management and prognosis based upon a specific genotype.