  Translation of specific mRNAs can be highly regulated in different cells , tissues or under pathological conditions. Ribosome heterogeneity can originate from variable expression or post-translational modifications of ribosomal proteins. The ribosomal oxygenases RIOX1 ( NO66) and RIOX2 ( MINA53) modify ribosomal proteins by histidine hydroxylation. A similar mechanism is present in prokaryotes. Thus , ribosome hydroxylation may be a well-conserved regulatory mechanism with implications in disease and development. However , little is known about the evolutionary history of Riox1 and Riox2 genes and their encoded proteins across eukaryotic taxa. In this study , we have analysed Riox1 and Riox2 orthologous genes from 49 metazoen species and have constructed phylogenomic trees for both genes. Our genomic and phylogenetic analyses revealed that Arthropoda , Annelida , Nematoda and Mollusca lack the Riox2 gene , although in the early phylum Cnidaria both genes , Riox1 and Riox2 , are present and expressed. Riox1 is an intronless single-exon-gene in several species , including humans. In contrast to Riox2 , Riox1 is ubiquitously present throughout the animal kingdom suggesting that Riox1 is the phylogenetically older gene from which Riox2 has evolved. Both proteins have maintained a unique protein architecture with conservation of active sites within the JmjC domains , a dimerization domain , and a winged-helix domain. In addition , Riox1 proteins possess a unique N-terminal extension domain. Immunofluorescence analyses in Hela cells and in Hydra vulgaris<pathogen> identified a nucleolar localisation signal within the extended N-terminal domain of human RIOX1 and an altered subnuclear localisation for the Hydra Riox2. Conserved active site residues and uniform protein domain architecture suggest a consistent enzymatic activity within the Riox orthologs throughout evolution. However , differences in genomic architecture , like single exon genes and alterations in subnuclear localisation , as described for Hydra , point towards adaption mechanisms that may correlate with taxa- or species-specific requirements. The diversification of Riox1/Riox2 gene structures throughout evolution suggest that functional requirements in expression of protein isoforms and/or subcellular localisation of proteins may have evolved by adaptation to lifestyle.