  Blunt cardiac trauma is diagnosed in less than 10 % of trauma patients and covers the range of severity from clinically insignificant myocardial contusions to lethal multi-chamber cardiac rupture. The most common mechanisms of injury include: motor vehicle collisions ( MVC) , pedestrians struck by motor vehicles and falls from significant heights. A severe complication from blunt cardiac trauma is cardiac chamber rupture with pericardial tear. It is an exceedingly rare diagnosis. A retrospective review identified only 0.002 % of all trauma patients presented with this condition. Most patients with atrial rupture do not survive transport to the hospital and upon arrival diagnosis remains difficult. We present two cases of atrial<symptom> and pericardial rupture. The first case is a 33-year-old female involved in a MVC , who presented unresponsive , hypotensive and tachycardic. A left sided hemothorax was diagnosed and a chest tube placed with 1200 mL of bloody output. The patient was taken to the OR emergently. Intraoperatively , a laceration in the right pericardium and a 3 cm defect in the anterior , right atrium were identified. Despite measures to control hemorrhage<symptom> and resuscitate the patient , the patient did not survive. The second case is a 58-year-old male involved in a high-speed MVC. Similar to the first case , the patient presented unresponsive , hypotensive and tachycardic with a left sided hemothorax. A chest tube was placed with 900 mL of bloody output. Based on the output and ongoing resuscitation requirements , the patient was taken to the OR. Intraoperatively , a 15 cm anterior pericardial laceration was identified. Through the defect , there was brisk bleeding from a 1 cm laceration on the left atrial appendage. The injury was debrided and repaired using a running 3-0 polypropylene suture over a Satinsky clamp. The patient eventually recovered and was discharged home. We present two cases of uncontained atrial<symptom> and pericardial rupture from blunt cardiac trauma. Contained ruptures with an intact pericardium present as a cardiac tamponade while uncontained ruptures present with hemomediastinum or hemothorax. A high degree of suspicion is required to rapidly diagnose and perform the cardiorrhaphy to offer the best chance at survival.