  One of the potentially important applications of three-dimensional ( 3D) intracranial vessel wall ( IVW) cardiovascular magnetic resonance ( CMR) is to monitor disease progression and regression via quantitative measurement of IVW morphology during medical management or drug development. However , a prerequisite for this application is to validate that IVW morphologic measurements based on the modality are reliable. In this study we performed comprehensive reliability analysis for the recently proposed whole-brain IVW CMR technique. Thirty-four healthy subjects and 10 patients with known intracranial atherosclerotic disease underwent repeat whole-brain IVW CMR scans. In 19 of the 34 subjects , two-dimensional ( 2D) turbo<pathogen> spin-echo ( TSE) scan was performed to serve as a reference for the assessment of vessel dimensions. Lumen and wall volume , normalized wall index , mean and maximum wall thickness were measured in both 3D and 2D IVW CMR images. Scan-rescan , intra-observer , and inter-observer reproducibility of 3D IVW CMR in the quantification of IVW or plaque dimensions were respectively assessed in volunteers and patients as well as for different healthy subjectsub-groups ( i.e. < 50 and ≥ 50 years). The agreement in vessel wall and lumen measurements between the 3D technique and the 2D TSE method was also investigated. In addition , the sample size required for future longitudinal clinical studies was calculated. The intra-class correlation coefficient ( ICC) and Bland-Altman plots indicated excellent reproducibility and inter-method agreement for all morphologic measurements ( All ICCs > 0.75). In addition , all ICCs of patients were equal to or higher than that of healthy subjects except maximum wall thickness. In volunteers , all ICCs of the age group of ≥ 50 years were equal to or higher than that of the age group of < 50 years. Normalized wall index and mean and maximum wall thickness were significantly larger in the age group of ≥ 50 years. To detect 5 %- 20 % difference between placebo and treatment groups , normalized wall index requires the smallest sample size while lumen volume requires the highest sample size. Whole-brain 3D IVW CMR is a reliable imaging method for the quantification of intracranial vessel dimensions and could potentially be useful for monitoring plaque progression and regression.