  To provide an update on knowledge the role of genetics in youth-onset type 2 diabetes ( T2D). The prevalence in youth of T2D , once thought to be exclusively a disease of adults , has increased by over 35 % since 2001. Youth with T2D tend to have higher rates of complications , more aggressive disease , with more rapid<symptom> loss<symptom> of beta-cell function and a less favorable response to treatment than adults. Obesity is the most important risk factor for T2D , and the rise in childhood overweight and obesity appears responsible for the dramatic increase in T2D in youth. However , some obese children do not develop T2D , consistent with genetic differences in susceptibility to the disease in the setting of obesity and insulin resistance , currently far less well characterized in youth than in adults. Recent studies have begun to show associations of several established adult T2D genetic risk variants with youth-onset T2D and related glycemic quantitative traits , including the strongest known cross-population T2D genetic contributor TCF7L2. Maturity-onset diabetes of the young ( MODY) , a diabetes subtype distinct from type 1 diabetes ( T1D) and T2D , is now known to result from a highly penetrant gene mutation in one of several genes. MODY has been shown to account for or contribute to at least 4.5 % of clinically diagnosed T2D , even among those who are overweight or obese , impacting treatment decisions. The recently formed ProDiGY ( Progress in Diabetes Genetics in Youth -RRB- Consortium is using genome-wide association studies and whole exome sequencing to understand the genetic architecture of T2D in youth , including how it differs from that of adults. The limited amount of research conducted to date on the genetics of youth-onset T2D , which tends to be a more aggressive disease than adult T2D , suggests some overlap with genes involved in adult T2D and a sizeable influence of highly penetrant monogenic diabetes variants. The ProDiGY Consortium is expected to provide a more comprehensive understanding of youth T2D genetics.