  The current study examines the feasibility and potential effects of long distance , remote simulation training on team dynamics. The study design was a prospective study evaluating team dynamics before and after remote simulation. Study subjects consisted of interdisciplinary teams ( attending physicians , physicians in training , advanced care practitioners , and/or nurses). The study was conducted at nine training sites in eight countries. Study subjects completed 2-3 simulation scenarios of acute crises before and after training with the Checklist for Early Recognition and Treatment of Acute Illness ( CERTAIN). Pre- and post-CERTAIN training simulations were evaluated by two independent reviewers utilizing the Team Emergency Assessment Measure ( TEAM) , which is a 11-item questionnaire that has been validated for assessing teamwork in the intensive care unit. Any discrepancies of greater than 1 point between the two reviewers on any question on the TEAM assessment were sent to a third reviewer to judge. The score that was deemed discordant by the third judge was eliminated. Pre- and post-CERTAIN training TEAM scores were averaged and compared. Of the nine teams evaluated , six teams demonstrated an overall improvement in global team performance following CERTAIN virtual training. For each of the 11 TEAM assessments , a trend toward improvement following CERTAIN training was noted; however , no assessment had universal improvement. ` Team composure and control ' had the least absolute score improvement following CERTAIN training. The greatest improvement in the TEAM assessment scores was in the ` team 's ability to complete tasks in a timely manner ' and in the ` team leader 's communication to the team '. The assessment of team dynamics using long distance , virtual simulation training appears to be feasible and may result in improved team performance during simulated patient crises; however , language and video quality were the two largest barriers noted during the review process.