  The murine leukaemia virus ( MLV) Gag cleavage product , p12 , is essential for both early and late steps in viral replication. The N-terminal domain of p12 binds directly to capsid ( CA) and stabilises the mature viral core , whereas defects in the C-terminal domain ( CTD) of p12 can be rescued by addition of heterologous chromatin binding sequences ( CBSs). We and others hypothesised that p12 tethers the pre-integration complex ( PIC) to host chromatin ready for integration. Using confocal microscopy , we have observed for the first time that CA localises to mitotic chromatin in infected cells in a p12-dependent manner. GST-tagged p12 alone , however , did not localise to chromatin and mass-spectrometry analysis of its interactions identified only proteins known to bind the p12 region of Gag. Surprisingly , the ability to interact with chromatin was conferred by a single amino acid change , M63I , in the p12 CTD. Interestingly , GST-p12_M63I showed increased phosphorylation in mitosis relative to interphase , which correlated with an increased interaction with mitotic chromatin. Mass-spectrometry analysis of GST-p12_M63I revealed nucleosomal histones as primary interactants. Direct binding of MLV p12_M63I peptides to histones was confirmed by biolayer-interferometry ( BLI) assays using highly-avid recombinant poly-nucleosomal arrays. Excitingly , using this method , we also observed binding between MLV p12_WT and nucleosomes. Nucleosome binding was additionally detected with p12 orthologs from feline and gibbon ape leukemia<disease> viruses using both pull-down and BLI assays , indicating that this a common feature of gammaretroviral p12 proteins. Importantly , p12 peptides were able to block the binding of the prototypic foamy virus CBS to nucleosomes and vice versa , implying that their docking sites overlap and suggesting a conserved mode of chromatin tethering for different retroviral genera. We propose that p12 is acting in a similar capacity to CPSF6 in HIV-1 infection by facilitating initial chromatin targeting of CA-containing PICs prior to integration.