  LMNA-related muscular dystrophy can manifest in a wide variety of disorders , including Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy ( EDMD) , limb-girdle muscular dystrophy ( LGMD) , and LMNA-associated congenital muscular dystrophy ( L-CMD). Muscle magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) has become a useful tool in the diagnostic workup of patients with muscle dystrophies. This study aimed to investigate whether there is a consistent pattern of MRI changes in patients with LMNA mutations in various muscle subtypes. Twenty-two patients with LMNA-related muscular dystrophies were enrolled in this study. MRI of the thigh and/or calf muscles was performed in them. The muscle MRI features of the three subtypes were compared by the Mann-Whitney U-test. The relationship between the clinical and MRI findings was also investigated by Spearman 's rank analyses. The present study included five EDMD , nine LGMD , and eight L-CMD patients. The thigh muscle MRI revealed that the fatty infiltration of the adductor magnus , semimembranosus , long and short heads of the biceps femoris , and vasti muscles , with relative sparing of the rectus<pathogen> femoris , was the predominant change observed in the EDMD , LGMD , and advanced-stage L-CMD phenotypes , although the involvement of the vasti muscles was not prominent in the early stage of L-CMD. At the level of the calf , six patients ( one EDMD , four LGMD , and one L-CMD) also showed a similar pattern , in which the soleus and the medial and lateral gastrocnemius muscles were most frequently observed to have fatty infiltration. The fatty infiltration severity demonstrated higher scores associated with disease progression , with a corresponding rate of 1.483 + 0.075 × disease duration ( X) ( r = 0.444 , P = 0.026). It was noteworthy that in six L-CMD patients with massive inflammatory cell infiltration in muscle pathology , no remarkable edema-like signals were observed in muscle MRI. EDMD , LGMD and advanced-staged L-CMD subtypes showed similar pattern of muscle MRI changes , while early-staged L-CMD showed somewhat different changes. Muscle MRI of L-CMD with a muscular dystrophy pattern in MRI provided important clues for differentiating it from childhood inflammatory myopathy. The fatty infiltration score could be used as a reliable biomarker for outcome measure of disease progression.