  The application of engineered silver nanoparticles ( AgNPs) in a considerable amount of registered commercial products inevitably will result in the continuous release of AgNPs into the natural aquatic environment. Therefore , native biofilms , as the prominent life form of microorganisms in almost all known ecosystems , will be subjected to AgNP exposure. Despite the exponentially growing research activities worldwide , it is still difficult to assess nanoparticle-mediated toxicity in natural environments. In order to obtain an ecotoxicologically relevant exposure scenario , we performed experiments with artificial stream mesocosm systems approaching low dose AgNP concentrations close to predicted environmental concentrations. Pregrown freshwater biofilms were exposed for 14 days to citrate-stabilized AgNPs at a concentration of 600 μg l-1 in two commonly used sizes ( 30 and 70 nm). Sublethal effects of AgNP treatment were assessed with regard to biofilm structure by gravimetric measurements ( biofilm thickness and density) and by two biomass parameters , chlorophyll a and protein content. The composition of bacterial biofilm communities was characterized by t-RFLP fingerprinting combined with phylogenetic studies based on the 16S gene. After 14 days of treatment , the structural parameters of the biofilm such as thickness , density , and chlorophyll a and protein content were not statistically significantly changed by AgNP exposure. Furthermore , t-RFLP fingerprint analysis showed that the bacterial diversity was not diminished by AgNPs , as calculated by Shannon Wiener and evenness indices. Nevertheless , t-RFLP analysis also indicated that AgNPs led to an altered biofilm community composition as was shown by cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling ( MDS) based on the Bray Curtis index. Sequence analysis of cloned 16S rRNA genes further revealed that changes in community composition were related with the displacement of putatively AgNP-sensitive bacterial taxa Actinobacteria , Chloroflexi , and Cyanobacteria by taxa known for their enhanced adaptability towards metal stress , such as Acidobacteria , Sphingomonadales , and Comamonadaceae. This measurable community shift , even after low dose AgNP treatment , causes serious concerns with respect to the broad application of AgNPs and their potentially adverse impact on the ecological function of lotic biofilms , such as biodegradation or biostabilization.