  People living with hepatitis<pathogen> C<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( HCV<pathogen>) infection are disproportionately over-represented in the healthcare system due to various individual and contextual circumstances , including comorbidities and socioeconomic marginalisation. With growing trends in morbidity and mortality related to HCV<pathogen> infection , HCV<pathogen> is becoming a significant health and financial burden on the healthcare system , particularly in acute hospital settings. It is noteworthy that with the advent of direct-acting antiviral therapy the increasing number of patients who are cured of HCV<pathogen> could potentially result in different patterns of hospital-related outcomes over time. We will conduct a systematic review of published literature to retrieve quantitative research articles pertaining to hospital outcomes among patients living with HCV<pathogen>. Primary outcomes include hospitalisation rates , length of stay , leaving against medical advice , readmission and in-hospital mortality. In total , five databases will be searched ( MEDLINE , EMBASE , CINAHL , PsycINFO and Web of Science). Titles , abstracts and full texts will be independently reviewed by two investigators in three separate stages. The methodological quality of included quantitative research studies will be assessed using a validated tool. Data from included articles will be extracted using a standardised form and synthesised in a narrative account. Results of this systematic review could provide a better understanding on how to optimise health systems and services to improve patient outcomes and care. The results of this study may provide future research with a foundation to guide decision-making and for designing and implementing systems-level interventions to improve treatment and care delivery for people living with HCV<pathogen>. Ethical approval for this study was received by the University of British Columbia/Providence Health Care Research Ethics Board. Findings from this study will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications , presentations , reports and community forums PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017081082; Pre-results.