  Alzheimer 's disease is widely described since the discovery of histopathological lesions<symptom> in Mrs. Auguste Deter in 1906. However to date , there is no effective treatment to deal with the many cellular and molecular alterations. The complexity is even higher with the growing evidence of involvement of the peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs). Indeed , monocytes and T cells are shown in the cerebral parenchyma of AD patients , and these cells grafted to the periphery are able to go through the blood-brain barrier ( BBB) in transgenic mouse models. It is known that BBB is disrupted at a late stage of AD. Chemokines represent major regulators of the transmigration of PBMCs , but many data were obtained on AD animal models. No data are available on the role of AD BBB in a healthy brain parenchyma. Therefore , the purpose of this study was to analyze the longitudinal chemokine profile expression in a BBB model from AD transgenic mice versus wild-type ( WT) mice. A primary mouse BBB model was used with a luminal compartment either AD or WT and an abluminal compartment WT consisting of astrocytes and microglia. PBMCs were extracted by a ficoll gradient and incubated in the transwell with a direct contact with the luminal side , including the endothelial cells and pericytes. Then , the complete BBB model was incubated during 48 h , before supernatants and cell lysates were collected. Chemokines were quantified by X-MAP ® luminex technology. Abluminal CX3CL1 production increased in 12-month-old AD BBB while CX3CL1 levels decreased in luminal lysates. CCL3 in luminal compartment increased with aging and was significantly different compared to AD BBB at 12 months. In addition , abluminal CCL2 in 12-month-old AD BBB greatly decreased compared to levels in WT BBB. On the contrary , no modification was observed for CCL4 , CCL5 , and CXCL10. These first findings highlighted the impact of AD luminal compartment on chemokine signature in a healthy brain parenchyma , suggesting new therapeutic or diagnostic approaches.