  Iron ( Fe) is an essential micronutrient for plants. Utilization of Fe deficiency-tolerant rootstock is an effective strategy to prevent Fe deficiency problems in fruit trees production. Malus halliana is an apple rootstock that is resistant to Fe deficiency; however , few molecular studies have been conducted on M. halliana. To evaluate short-term molecular response of M. halliana leaves under Fe deficiency condition , RNA sequencing ( RNA-Seq) analyses were conducted at 0 ( T1) , 0.5 ( T2) and 3 d ( T3) after Fe-deficiency stress , and the timepoints were determined with a preliminary physiological experiment. In all , 6907 , 5328 , and 3593 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) were identified in pairs of T2 vs. T1 , T3 vs. T1 , and T3 vs. T2. Several of the enriched DEGs were related to heme binding , Fe ion binding , thylakoid membranes<symptom> , photosystem II , photosynthesis-antenna protein , porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism and carotenoid biosynthesis under Fe deficiency , which suggests that Fe deficiency mainly affects the photosynthesis of M. halliana. Additionally , we found that Fe deficiency induced significant down-regulation in genes involved in photosynthesis at T2 when seedlings were treated with Fe-deficient solution for 0.5 d , indicating that there was a rapid response of M. halliana to Fe deficiency. A strong up-regulation of photosynthesis genes was detected at T3 , which suggested that M. halliana was able to recover photosynthesis after prolonged Fe starvation. A similar expression pattern was found in pigment regulation , including genes for coding chlorophyllide a oxygenase ( CAO) , β-carotene hydroxylase ( β-OHase) , zeaxanthin epoxidase ( ZEP) and 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase ( NCED). Our results suggest that pigment regulation plays an important role in the Fe deficiency response. In addition , we verified sixteen genes related to photosynthesis-antenna protein , porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism and carotenoid biosynthesis pathways using quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR) to ensure the accuracy of transcriptome data. Photosynthetic parameters , Chl fluorescence parameters and the activity of Chlase were also determined. This study broadly characterizes a molecular mechanism in which pigment and photosynthesis-related regulations play indispensable roles in the response of M. halliana to short-term Fe deficiency and provides a basis for future analyses of the key genes involved in the tolerance of Fe deficiency.