  Person-Centered Integrated Care ( PC-IC) is believed to improve outcomes and experience for persons with multiple long-term and complex conditions. No broad consensus exists regarding how to capture the patient-experienced quality of PC-IC. Most PC-IC evaluation tools focus on care events or care in general. Building on others ' and our previous work , we outlined a 4-stage goal-oriented PC-IC process ideal: 1) Personalized goal setting 2) Care planning aligned with goals 3) Care delivery according to plan , and 4) Evaluation of goal attainment. We aimed to explore , apply , refine and operationalize this quality of care framework. This paper is a qualitative evaluative review of the individual Patient Pathways ( iPP) experiences of 19 strategically chosen persons with multimorbidity in light of ideals for chronic care. The iPP includes all care events , addressing the persons collected health issues , organized by time. We constructed iPPs based on the electronic health record ( from general practice , nursing services , and hospital) with patient follow-up interviews. The application of the framework and its refinement were parallel processes. Both were based on analysis of salient themes in the empirical material in light of the PC-IC process ideal and progressively more informed applications of themes and questions. The informants consistently reviewed care quality by how care supported/ threatened their long-term goals. Personal goals were either implicit or identified by `` What matters to you? '' Informants expected care to address their long-term goals and placed responsibility for care quality and delivery at the system level. The PC-IC process framework exposed system failure in identifying long-term goals , provision of shared long-term multimorbidity care plans , monitoring of care delivery and goal evaluation. The PC-IC framework includes descriptions of ideal care , key questions and literature references for each stage of the PC-IC process. This first version of a PC-IC process framework needs further validation in other settings. Gaps in care that are invisible with event-based quality of care frameworks become apparent when evaluated by a long-term goal-driven PC-IC process framework. The framework appears meaningful to persons with multimorbidity.