  Ensuring patients benefit from the latest medical and technical advances remains a major challenge , with rational-linear and reductionist approaches to translating evidence into practice proving inefficient and ineffective. Complexity thinking , which emphasises interconnectedness and unpredictability , offers insights to inform evidence translation theories and strategies. Drawing on detailed insights into complex micro-systems , this research aimed to advance empirical and theoretical understanding of the reality of making and sustaining improvements in complex healthcare systems. Using analytical auto-ethnography , including documentary analysis and literature review , we assimilated learning from 5 years of observation of 22 evidence translation projects ( UK). We used a grounded theory approach to develop substantive theory and a conceptual framework. Results were interpreted using complexity theory and ` simple rules ' were identified reflecting the practical strategies that enhanced project progress. The framework for Successful Healthcare Improvement From Translating Evidence in complex systems ( SHIFT-Evidence) positions the challenge of evidence translation within the dynamic context of the health system. SHIFT-Evidence is summarised by three strategic principles , namely ( 1) ` act scientifically and pragmatically '- knowledge of existing evidence needs to be combined with knowledge of the unique initial conditions of a system , and interventions need to adapt as the complex system responds and learning emerges about unpredictable effects; ( 2) 'em brace complexity '- evidence-based interventions only work if related practices and processes of care within the complex system are functional , and evidence-translation efforts need to identify and address any problems with usual care , recognising that this typically includes a range of interdependent parts of the system; and ( 3) ` engage and empower '- evidence translation and system navigation requires commitment and insights from staff and patients with experience of the local system , and changes need to align with their motivations and concerns. Twelve associated ` simple rules ' are presented to provide actionable guidance to support evidence translation and improvement in complex systems. By recognising how agency , interconnectedness and unpredictability influences evidence translation in complex systems , SHIFT-Evidence provides a tool to guide practice and research. The ` simple rules ' have potential to provide a common platform for academics , practitioners , patients and policymakers to collaborate when intervening to achieve improvements in healthcare.