  During differentiation transient , inducers produce permanent changes in gene expression. A similar phenomenon , transcriptional hysteresis , produced by transient or prolonged exposure to glucose , leads to cumulative , persistent , and largely irreversible effects on glucose-regulated gene expression , and may drive key aspects of metabolic memory , obesity , diabetes , and aging , and explain the protective effects of dietary restriction during aging. The most relevant effects of glucose-induced transcriptional hysteresis are the persistent effects of elevated glucose on genes that control glucose metabolism itself. A key observation is that , as with the lac operon , glucose induces genes that promote glycolysis and inhibits gene expression of alternative metabolic pathways including the pentose pathway , beta oxidation , and the TCA cycle. A similar pattern of metabolic gene expression is observed during aging , suggesting that cumulative exposure to glucose during aging produces this metabolic shift. Conversely , dietary restriction , which increases lifespan and delays age-related impairments , produces the opposite metabolic profile , leading to a shift away from glycolysis and toward the use of alternative substrates , including lipid and ketone metabolisms. The effect of glucose on gene expression leads to a positive feedback loop that leads to metastable persistent expression of genes that promote glycolysis and inhibit alternative pathways , a phenomenon first observed in the regulation of the lac operon. On the other hand , this pattern of gene expression can also be inhibited by activation of peroxisome proliferator activating receptor transcription factors that promote beta oxidation and inhibit metabolism of glucose-derived carbon bonds in the TCA cycle. Several pathological consequences may arise from glucose-induced transcriptional hysteresis. First , elevated glucose induces glycolytic genes in pancreatic beta cells , which induces a semi-stable persistent increase in insulin secretion , which could drive obesity and insulin resistance , and also due to glucose toxicity could eventually lead to beta-cell decompensation and diabetes. Diabetic complications persist even after complete normalization of glucose , a phenomenon known as metabolic memory. This too can be explained by persistent bistable expression of glucose-induced glycolytic genes.