  Physical activity is an important component of type 2 diabetes management. Physical activity level among general population in Nepal is reported to vary considerably. However , knowledge on physical activity in Nepali diabetics is very limited. Engagement in physical activity could be influenced by perception of barriers against adopting the behavior and benefits of adopting it. This study explores the prevalence of physical activity and factors that promote and hinder the behavior among urban residing diabetic patients from Nepal. A descriptive cross-sectional design was adopted using a simple random sampling of type 2 diabetic patients from two diabetes clinics at Lalitpur and Kaski districts of Nepal. Two hundred and seventy participants were surveyed to obtain information on physical activity using Global Physical Activity Questionnaire. Metabolic equivalent values were calculated and categorized into high , moderate and low levels of physical activity. The information on perceived facilitators and barriers was collected by Exercise Barriers and Benefits Survey scale. Odds ratios and 95 % confidence intervals of the measures were estimated using multinomial logistic regression. The study showed relatively high prevalence of physical activity among the urban Nepali diabetic patients; 52 % were moderately active and 28 % highly active. Travel and work-related activities were the major contributors. Male participants , educated and those living in extended families were more motivated for physical activity than their counterparts. Physical fitness , strength and flexibility , better sleep at night , social interaction and longevity , were identified as the major facilitators. Family responsibilities , busy schedule and family discouragement were identified as barriers against being physically active. The diabetic patients were mostly moderately physically active. Future research could explore different context-specific ways of remaining physically active , apart from walking and doing household chores. More focus should also be placed on leisure time physical activity as it was found to be low. Interventions could be designed by promoting the facilitators and addressing the barriers of physical activity , which is likely to reduce the healthcare costs of management of diabetic complications.