  Gastric carcinoma ( GC) is a rather rare pathological finding in dogs , with the exception of some breeds which seem predisposed. The etiopathogenesis is largely unknown in dogs , whereas in humans GC often develops from gastric mucosal metaplasia and dysplasia. This study investigates whether dogs of certain breeds are more often subject to gastroduodenoscopy ( GDS) , and diagnosed with GC , mucosal metaplasia or dysplasia. A retrospective clinical database search was performed at the Veterinary Teaching Hospital at the University of Helsinki , Finland. The following inclusion criteria were applied to estimate relative risk for metaplasia/dysplasia and GC: dogs from pure breeds with at least five individuals subject to GDS with histopathology of gastric biopsies. Between 2006 and 2016 , from a total of 54945 canine patients presented , 423 dogs underwent GDS. Inclusion criteria were met in 180 dogs of 20 different pure breeds. Eight dogs had GCs ( mean age = 9.8 ± 1.7 years): Belgian Tervuren ( n = 4) , Collie ( n = 2) , Golden Retriever ( n = 1) and Jack Russel Terrier ( n = 1). Fourteen dogs of eight breeds had gastric mucosal metaplasia or dysplasia. A log-binomial statistical model revealed that dogs in the following breeds had a significantly higher probability to undergo GDS than the others in the study population: Australian Terrier , Belgian Tervuren , Cairn Terrier , Collie and Siberian Husky. Belgian Tervuren was found at higher risk to be diagnosed with GC ( RR = 19 ( 5.7-63.9; P < 0.0001)) , as well as mucosal metaplasia/dysplasia ( RR ( 7.6; 2.95-19.58; P < 0.0001)) , as compared to the other breeds included. Shetland Sheepdog had an increased RR ( 5.83; 1.75-19.45; P = 0.0041) for metaplasia. The results indicate a very low incidence of GC in dogs. The Belgian Tervuren , however , appears as predisposed. The histopathologic descriptions of mucosal changes such as metaplasia and dysplasia were also rare , but were more frequent in the Belgian Tervuren. Previous reports of these changes in dogs are very scarce , but they might be presumably related to GC in dogs , as they are in humans. Future research should investigate the possible role of metaplasia and dysplasia in the development of GC in dogs , especially those of predisposed breeds.