  The proteome of mitochondria comprises mostly proteins that originate as precursors in the cytosol. Before import into the organelle , such proteins are exposed to cytosolic quality control mechanisms. Multiple lines of evidence indicate a significant contribution of the major cytosolic protein degradation machinery , the ubiquitin-proteasome system , to the quality control of mitochondrial proteins. Proteins that are directed to the mitochondrial intermembrane space ( IMS) exemplify an entire class of mitochondrial proteins regulated by proteasomal degradation. However , little is known about how these proteins are selected for degradation. The present study revealed the heterogeneous cytosolic stability of IMS proteins. Using a screening approach , we found that different cytosolic factors are responsible for the degradation of specific IMS proteins , with no single common factor involved in the degradation of all IMS proteins. We found that the Cox12 protein is rapidly degraded when localized to the cytosol , thus providing a sensitive experimental model. Using Cox12 , we found that lysine residues but not conserved cysteine residues are among the degron features important for protein ubiquitination. We observed the redundancy of ubiquitination components , with significant roles of Ubc4 E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and Rsp5 E3 ubiquitin ligase. The amount of ubiquitinated Cox12 was inversely related to mitochondrial import efficiency. Importantly , we found that precursor protein ubiquitination blocks its import into mitochondria. The present study confirms the involvement of ubiquitin-proteasome system in the quality control of mitochondrial IMS proteins in the cytosol. Notably , ubiquitination of IMS proteins prohibits their import into mitochondria. Therefore , ubiquitination directly affects the availability of precursor proteins for organelle biogenesis. Importantly , despite their structural similarities , IMS proteins are not selected for degradation in a uniform way. Instead , specific IMS proteins rely on discrete components of the ubiquitination machinery to mediate their clearance by the proteasome.