  We aimed to review liver injury experience in a level 1 trauma center; namely clinical presentation , grading , management approach and clinical outcomes. It is a retrospective analysis to include all blunt liver injury patients who were admitted at the Level 1 trauma center over a 3-year period. Data were compared and analyzed based on the liver injury grades and management approaches. Blunt liver injury accounted for 38 % of the total blunt abdominal trauma cases with a mean age of 31 ± 13 years. Liver injury grade II ( 44.7 %) was most common followed by grade I ( 28.8 %) , grade III ( 19.1 %) , grade IV ( 7.0 %) and grade V ( 0.4 %). Blood transfusion was more frequently required in patients with grade IV ( p = 0.04). Out of 257 patients with blunt liver trauma , 198 were initially treated conservatively , that was successful in 192 ( 97 %) , whereas it failed in 6 ( 3 %) patients due to delayed bleeding from hepatic hematoma , associated splenic rupture and small bowel injury which mandate surgical intervention. Fifty-nine patients ( 23 %) underwent emergent surgery in terms of packing , resection debridement , left lobe hepatectomy and splenectomy. Hepatic complications included biloma , pseudoaneurysm and massive liver necrosis<symptom>. Subanalysis of data using the World Society of Emergency Surgery ( WSES) classification revealed 19 patients were categorized as a WSES grade IV who needed surgical intervention without having an initial computerized tomography scanning. The overall mortality was 7.8 % which was comparable among the conservative and operative group. In our center , low grade liver injury in young males prevails. NOM is successful even for high graded injuries. All conservatively treated patients with high-grade liver injuries should be closely monitored for signs of failure of the non-operative management. Introducing the new WSES classification makes clear how is important the hemodynamic status of the patients despite the lesion<symptom>. However , further larger prospective and multicenter studies are needed to support our findings.