  Even though extensively investigated , the nature of working memory ( WM) deficits in patients with schizophrenia ( PSZ) is not yet fully understood. In particular , the contribution of different WM sub-processes to the severe WM deficit observed in PSZ is a matter of debate. So far , most research has focused on impaired WM maintenance. By analyzing different types of errors in a spatial delayed response task ( DRT) , we have recently demonstrated that incorrect yet confident responses ( which we labeled as false memory errors) rather than incorrect/not-confident responses reflect failures of WM encoding , which was also impaired in PSZ. In the present study , we provide further evidence for a functional dissociation between confident and not-confident errors by manipulating the demands on WM maintenance , i.e. , the length over which information has to be maintained in WM. Furthermore , we investigate whether these functionally distinguishable WM processes are impaired in PSZ. Twenty-four PSZ and 24 demographically matched healthy controls ( HC) performed a spatial DRT in which the length of the delay period was varied between 1 , 2 , 4 , and 6 s. In each trial , participants also rated their level of response confidence. Across both groups , longer delays led to increased rates of incorrect/not-confident responses , while incorrect/confident responses were not affected by delay length. This functional dissociation provides additional support for our proposal that false memory errors ( i.e. , confident errors) reflect problems at the level of WM encoding , while not-confident errors reflect failures of WM maintenance. Schizophrenic patients showed increased numbers of both confident and not-confident errors , suggesting that both sub-processes of WM-encoding and maintenance-are impaired in schizophrenia. Combined with the delay length-dependent functional dissociation , we propose that these impairments in schizophrenic patients are functionally distinguishable.