  Previous research suggested a role of gaze in preference formation , not merely as an expression of preference , but also as a causal influence. According to the gaze cascade hypothesis , the longer subjects look at an item , the more likely they are to develop a preference for it. However , to date the connection between viewing and liking has been investigated predominately with self-paced viewing conditions in which the subjects were required to select certain items from simultaneously presented stimuli on the basis of perceived visual attractiveness. Such conditions might promote a default , but non-mandatory connection between viewing and liking. To explore whether the connection is separable , we examined the evaluative processing of single naturalistic food images in a 2 × 2 design , conducted completely within subjects , in which we varied both the type of exposure ( self-paced versus time-controlled) and the type of evaluation ( non-exclusive versus exclusive). In the self-paced exclusive evaluation , longer viewing was associated with a higher likelihood of a positive evaluation. However , in the self-paced non-exclusive evaluation , the trend reversed such that longer viewing durations were associated with lesser ratings. Furthermore , in the time-controlled tasks , both with non-exclusive and exclusive evaluation , there was no significant relationship between the viewing duration and the evaluation. The overall pattern of results was consistent for viewing times measured in terms of exposure duration ( i.e. , the duration of stimulus presentation on the screen) and in terms of actual gaze duration ( i.e. , the amount of time the subject effectively gazed at the stimulus on the screen). The data indicated that viewing does not intrinsically lead to a higher evaluation when evaluating single food images; instead , the relationship between viewing duration and evaluation depends on the type of task. We suggest that self-determination of exposure duration may be a prerequisite for any influence from viewing time on evaluative processing , regardless of whether the influence is facilitative. Moreover , the purported facilitative link between viewing and liking appears to be limited to exclusive evaluation , when only a restricted number of items can be included in a chosen set.