  Utilization of long-lasting insecticidal nets ( LLIN) has been associated with reduction of malaria<disease> incidence , especially among children. The 2013 Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey revealed Osun State had the least proportion ( 5.7 %) of under-five children ( U5) who slept under LLIN the night before the survey. A study was conducted to assess caregivers ' knowledge about LLIN , utilization of LLIN and factors influencing LLIN use among U5 in Osun State , Nigeria. A cross-sectional study was carried out among 1020 mothers/caregivers of U5 selected from six communities in Osun State using a multistage sampling technique. A pre-tested interviewer administered questionnaire was used to collect information on socio-demographic characteristics , mothers ' knowledge about LLIN , ownership and utilization of LLIN and factors influencing use of LLIN in U5. Questions on knowledge about LLIN were scored and categorized into good ( scored ≥ 5) and poor ( score < 5) knowledge out of a maximum obtainable score of seven. Utilization of LLIN was defined as the proportion of U5 who slept under net the night before the survey. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics , Chi square test and logistic regression at α < 0.05. Transcripts from focus group discussions ( FGD) were analysed for emerging themes related to caregivers ' perspectives on utilization and factors affecting use of LLIN among U5. Majority of the respondents 588 ( 58.3 %) fall between age 25-34 years , with a mean age of 30.0 ± 6.3 years. All were aware of LLIN but only 76.1 % had good knowledge and 59.0 % reported use of LLIN among their U5. Reported barriers to utilizing LLIN were; heat ( 96.4 %) , reactions to the chemical ( 75.5 %) and unpleasant odour ( 41.3 %). These were corroborated at FGD. Those with formal education ( adjusted odds ratio ( aOR) = 1.4; 95 % CI 1.0-2.1) and those with good knowledge of LLIN ( aOR = 1.8; 95 % CI 1.4-2.5) were more likely to use LLIN than their counterparts without formal education and those with poor knowledge of LLIN respectively. The level of knowledge of respondents about LLIN was high and the utilization of LLIN among U5 was above average , however , it is still far below the 80 % target. Efforts should be made to further improve utilization of LLIN through intensified promotion and health education.