  We have little understanding of how vapers use e-cigarettes beyond cessation. E-cigarettes may have a role to play in reducing the health-related harms of tobacco smoking , through not only assisting smoking cessation attempts but also supporting long-term abstinence from smoking. However , there are fears that vaping may lead to the ` renormalisation ' of smoking type behaviours. This study aimed to explore patterns of use and reported experiences of vapers quitting smoking using an e-cigarette in relation to long-term smoking status ( abstinence or relapse). A purposive sample of 40 UK vapers was matched to a sampling frame of demographic characteristics from a representative sample of UK quitters. Following full informed consent , semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted. Data were thematically analysed by two members of the research team. Final thematic analysis was verified and agreed by consensus. The sample self-reported long histories of tobacco use and multiple previous quit attempts which had eventually resulted in relapse back to smoking , although a small but important group had never before attempted to quit. Initiating e-cigarette use was experienced as a revelation for some , who were quickly able to fully switch to using e-cigarettes as an alternative to tobacco smoking. For others , periods of dual use or smoking relapse combined with attempts at vaping that were not initially satisfactory. Many of these chose a cheaper ` cig-a-like ' device which they found to be inadequate. Experimentation with different devices and different setups , over time , resulted in some ` sliding ' rather than switching to vaping. This involved periods of ` dual use '. Some settled on patterns of vaping as a direct substitute of previous tobacco smoking , whereas others reported ` grazing ' patterns of vaping throughout the day that were perceived to support tobacco smoking abstinence. Our data demonstrates that e-cigarettes may be a unique harm reduction innovation for smoking relapse prevention. E-cigarettes meet the needs of some ex-smokers by substituting physical , psychological , social , cultural and identity-related aspects of tobacco addiction. Some vapers reported that they found vaping pleasurable and enjoyable-being more than a substitute but actually preferred , over time , to tobacco smoking. This clearly suggests that vaping is a viable long-term substitute for smoking , with substantial implications for tobacco harm reduction.