  A dysbiosis in the intestinal microbiome plays a role in the pathogenesis of several immunological diseases. These diseases often show a sex bias , suggesting sex differences in immune responses and in the intestinal microbiome. We hypothesized that sex differences in immune responses are associated with sex differences in microbiota composition. Fecal microbiota composition ( MITchip) , mRNA expression in intestinal tissue ( microarray) , and immune cell populations in mesenteric lymph nodes ( MLNs) were studied in male and female mice of two mouse strains ( C57B1/6OlaHsd and Balb/cOlaHsd). Transcriptomics and microbiota data were combined to identify bacterial species which may potentially be related to sex-specific differences in intestinal immune related genes. We found clear sex differences in intestinal microbiota species , diversity , and richness in healthy mice. However , the nature of the sex effects appeared to be determined by the mouse strain as different bacterial species were enriched in males and females of the two strains. For example , Lactobacillus<pathogen> plantarum<pathogen> and Bacteroides<pathogen> distasonis<pathogen> were enriched in B6 females as compared to B6 males , while Bifidobacterium<pathogen> was enriched BALB/c females as compared to BALB/c males. The strain-dependent sex effects were also observed in the expression of immunological genes in the colon. We found that the abundance of various bacteria ( e.g. , Clostridium<pathogen> leptum<pathogen> et rel.) which were enriched in B6 females positively correlated with the expression of several genes ( e.g. , Il-2rb , Ccr3 , and Cd80) which could be related to immunological functions , such as inflammatory responses and migration of leukocytes. The abundance of several bacteria ( e.g. , Faecalibacterium prausnitzii et rel. and Coprobacillus et rel.- Clostridium<pathogen> ramosum<pathogen> et rel.) which were enriched in BALB/c males positively correlated to the expression of several genes ( e.g. , Apoe , Il-1b , and Stat4) related to several immunological functions , such as proliferation and quantity of lymphocytes. The net result was the same , since both mouse strains showed similar sex induced differences in immune cell populations in the MLNs. Our data suggests a correlation between microbiota and intestinal immune populations in a sex and strain-specific way. These findings may contribute to the development of more sex and genetic specific treatments for intestinal-related disorders.