  Altered lipid metabolism is an emerging hallmark of aggressive breast cancers. The N-myc downstream regulated gene ( NDRG1) gene plays a critical role in peripheral nervous system myelination , as inactivating mutations cause severe demyelinating neuropathy. In breast cancer , elevated NDRG1 expression has been linked to clinical outcomes , but its functional role in breast cancer physiology has remained unclear. A meta-analysis of NDRG1 expression in multiple large publicly available genomic databases was conducted. Genome-wide expression correlation and Cox proportional hazards and Kaplan-Meier modeling of clinical outcomes associated with elevated expression were assessed. To study NDRG1 function , gene silencing and overexpression phenotypic studies were carried out in a panel of cell lines representing all major breast cancer molecular subtypes. Changes in cell proliferation , morphology , and neutral lipid accumulation due to altered NDRG1 expression were assessed by high throughput , quantitative microscopy. Comprehensive lipidomics mass spectrometry was applied to characterize global changes in lipid species due to NDRG1 silencing. Labeled fatty acids were used to monitor cellular fatty acid uptake and subcellular distribution under nutrient replete and starvation culture conditions. NDRG1 overexpression correlated with glycolytic and hypoxia-associated gene expression , and was associated with elevated rates of metastasis and patient mortality. Silencing NDRG1 reduced cell proliferation rates , causing lipid metabolism dysfunction including increased fatty acid incorporation into neutral lipids and lipid droplets. Conversely , NDRG1 expression minimized lipid droplet formation under nutrient replete and starvation conditions. Here we report that NDRG1 contributes to breast cancer aggressiveness by regulating the fate of lipids in cells that exhibit an altered lipid metabolic phenotype. In line with its role in promoting myelination and its association with altered metabolism in cancer , our findings show that NDRG1 is a critical regulator of lipid fate in breast cancer cells. The association between NDRG1 and poor prognosis in breast cancer suggests it should play a more prominent role in patient risk assessment. The function of NDRG1 in breast cancer lipid metabolism may represent a promising therapeutic approach in the future.