  The management of metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma ( RCC) has changed dramatically in the last 20 years , and the role of surgery in the immunotherapy 's era is under debate. Metastatic lesions<symptom> interesting pancreas are infrequent , but those harbouring from RCC have an high incidence. If metachronous resections are not rare , synchronous resection of primary RCC and its pancreatic metastasis is uncommonly reported , and accounts for a bad prognosis. We report the case of a 68 years old woman , who presented hematuria<symptom> at hospital incoming , with radiological appearance of a 13 cm left renal mass , with a 2.5 cm single pancreatic tail metastasis. Work-up of staging ruled out other distant metastases , urothelial cancer and there was no evidence of inferior vena cava thrombosis. We choose a 5-port trans-peritoneal robotic approach using lazy right lateral decubitus. Synchronous robotic radical nephrectomy and spleen-sparing pancreatic resection was performed. The pancreatic mass was completely enucleated from pancreatic parenchyma using a latero-medial dissection. Peri-operative hemoglobine loss was 2.4 g/dL. Total operative time was 213 min. No post-operative complications were recorded and patient was discharged in 7th post-operative day. Histopathological examination showed a pT2b N0 M1 RCC , Fuhrman grade II , with pancreatic tail metastasis; both , primary and metastatic lesions<symptom> had the same histological characteristics with negative surgical margins. After 9 months patient had no evidence of disease recurrence at radiological studies. The rationale for surgical removal of disseminated tumor , followed by immunotherapy , includes improving prognosis and enhancing the potential of an immune-mediated response to systemic treatment. A spleen-sparing procedure can adequately preserve post-operative immunologic capabilities. In our experience , the correct assessment of pre-operative imaging data and surgeon skills in robotic surgery seem to play a key role in the success of these procedures. Robotic surgery seems to enhance the possibility to control multiple vessels encountered during dissection. Such a conservative approach may be helpful in future research aimed at uncovering biological features , and also leading to better targeted preventive interventions and more individualized and effective treatments.