  HIV-related discrimination amongst healthcare providers is one of the strongest obstacles to effectively responding to HIV<pathogen>. This study was conducted to explore the occurrence of and other factors related to discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS amongst healthcare providers in Guangzhou , China. This was a cross-sectional study , conducted between July and October 2016 , that enrolled healthcare providers from 9 healthcare institutions in Guangzhou , China. HIV-related discrimination was assessed using anonymous self-designed questionnaires. Chi-square tests were used to study the differences in the socio-demographic characteristics , occupational characteristics , HIV-related knowledge and personal attitudes between participants who had and had not discriminated against People living with HIV/AIDS ( PLWHA). A multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to study the factors associated with HIV-related discrimination. A total of 972 healthcare providers were investigated , and 386 ( 39.7 %) had previously served HIV-positive individuals in their work. Administering HIV<pathogen> antibody tests for patients without his or her consent was the most frequent act of discrimination ( 65.3 %) , and other forms of discrimination , including `` differential treatment '' ( 51.0 %) , `` disclosed information '' ( 46.4 %) and `` refused to treat '' ( 38.6 %) , were also prevalent. The logistic regression analysis indicated that people who had worked for 3-7 years , worked in secondary hospitals or lower , worked in surgical departments , had lower scores on HIV<pathogen> transmission knowledge , were dissatisfied with the occupational exposure protection system offered by the government , were worried about HIV-related exposure and feared HIV-related exposure were more likely to commit an act of medical discrimination against PLWHA. HIV-related discrimination was not unusual in the healthcare providers of Guangzhou , which may be related to their negative cognitions and attitudes as well as the hospital management system and government policy. Therefore , comprehensive HIV-related knowledge education should be implemented to change the attitude of healthcare providers. In addition , the current laws and regulations should be refined by the government to protect the rights of healthcare providers. The contradiction between designated hospitals and non-designated hospitals should be resolved to ensure that PLWHA receive timely and effective help and treatment.