  Phytophthora infestans is responsible for late blight , one of the most important potato diseases. Phenazine-1-carboxylic acid ( PCA)- producing Pseudomonas<pathogen> fluorescens<pathogen> strain LBUM223 isolated in our laboratory shows biocontrol potential against various plant pathogens. To characterize the effect of LBUM223 on the transcriptome of P. infestans , we conducted an in vitro time-course study. Confrontational assay was performed using P. infestans inoculated alone ( control) or with LBUM223 , its phzC- isogenic mutant ( not producing PCA) , or exogenically applied PCA. Destructive sampling was performed at 6 , 9 and 12 days and the transcriptome of P. infestans was analysed using RNA-Seq. The expression of a subset of differentially expressed genes was validated by RT-qPCR. Both LBUM223 and exogenically applied PCA significantly repressed P. infestans ' growth at all times. Compared to the control treatment , transcriptomic analyses showed that the percentages of all P. infestans ' genes significantly altered by LBUM223 and exogenically applied PCA increased as time progressed , from 50 to 61 % and from to 32 to 46 % , respectively. When applying an absolute cut-off value of 3 fold change or more for all three harvesting times , 207 genes were found significantly differentially expressed by PCA , either produced by LBUM223 or exogenically applied. Gene ontology analysis revealed that both treatments altered the expression of key functional genes involved in major functions like phosphorylation mechanisms , transmembrane transport and oxidoreduction activities. Interestingly , even though no host plant tissue was present in the in vitro system , PCA also led to the overexpression of several genes encoding effectors. The mutant only slightly repressed P. infestans ' growth and barely altered its transcriptome. Our study suggests that PCA is involved in P. infestans ' growth repression and led to important transcriptomic changes by both up- and down-regulating gene expression in P. infestans over time. Different metabolic functions were altered and many effectors were found to be upregulated , suggesting their implication in biocontrol.