  Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) shows slight spatial variations in brain white matter ( WM). We used quantitative multi-parametric MRI to evaluate in what respect these inhomogeneities could correspond to WM subtypes with specific characteristics and spatial distribution. Twenty-six controls ( 12 women , 38 ± 9 Y) took part in a 60-min session on a 3T scanner measuring 7 parameters: R1 and R2 , diffusion tensor imaging which allowed to measure Axial and Radial Diffusivity ( AD , RD) , magnetization transfer imaging which enabled to compute the Macromolecular Proton Fraction ( MPF) , and a susceptibility-weighted sequence which permitted to quantify R2 * and magnetic susceptibility ( χm). Spatial independent component analysis was used to identify WM subtypes with specific combination of quantitative parameters values. Three subtypes could be identified. t-WM ( track) mostly mapped on well-formed projection and commissural tracts and came with high AD values ( all p < 10-18). The two other subtypes were located in subcortical WM and overlapped with association fibers: f-WM ( frontal) was mostly anterior in the frontal lobe whereas c-WM ( central) was underneath the central cortex. f-WM and c-WM had higher MPF values , indicating a higher myelin content ( all p < 1.7 10-6). This was compatible with their larger χm and R2 , as iron is essentially stored in oligodendrocytes ( all p < 0.01). Although R1 essentially showed the same , its higher value in t-WM relative to c-WM might be related to its higher cholesterol concentration. Thus , f- and c-WMs were less structured , but more myelinated and probably more metabolically active regarding to their iron content than WM related to fasciculi ( t-WM). As known WM bundles passed though different WM subtypes , myelination might not be uniform along the axons but rather follow a spatially consistent regional variability. Future studies might examine the reproducibility of this decomposition and how development and pathology differently affect each subtype.