  Allele-specific transcriptional regulation , including of imprinted genes , is essential for normal mammalian development. While the regulatory regions controlling imprinted genes are associated with DNA methylation ( DNAme) and specific histone modifications , the interplay between transcription and these epigenetic marks at allelic resolution is typically not investigated genome-wide due to a lack of bioinformatic packages that can process and integrate multiple epigenomic datasets with allelic resolution. In addition , existing ad-hoc software only consider SNVs for allele-specific read discovery. This limitation omits potentially informative INDELs , which constitute about one fifth of the number of SNVs in mice , and introduces a systematic reference bias in allele-specific analyses. Here , we describe MEA , an INDEL-aware Methylomic and Epigenomic Allele-specific analysis pipeline which enables user-friendly data exploration , visualization and interpretation of allelic imbalance. Applying MEA to mouse embryonic datasets yields robust allele-specific DNAme maps and low reference bias. We validate allele-specific DNAme at known differentially methylated regions and show that automated integration of such methylation data with RNA- and ChIP-seq datasets yields an intuitive , multidimensional view of allelic gene regulation. MEA uncovers numerous novel dynamically methylated loci , highlighting the sensitivity of our pipeline. Furthermore , processing and visualization of epigenomic datasets from human brain reveals the expected allele-specific enrichment of H3K27ac and DNAme at imprinted as well as novel monoallelically expressed genes , highlighting MEA 's utility for integrating human datasets of distinct provenance for genome-wide analysis of allelic phenomena. Our novel pipeline for standardized allele-specific processing and visualization of disparate epigenomic and methylomic datasets enables rapid analysis and navigation with allelic resolution. MEA is freely available as a Docker container at https://github.com/julienrichardalbert/MEA.