  A systematic review was conducted by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics to determine the evidence for the effectiveness of individualized nutrition therapy provided by a dietitian nutritionist and evidence-based ( EB) nutrition-therapy interventions in adults with diabetes. This article briefly reviews the systematic process used and summarizes the effectiveness evidence and intervention recommendations. In persons with type 2 diabetes ( T2D) , 18 studies met study criteria for the effectiveness question. A 0.3 % -2.0 % decrease from baseline in glycated hemoglobin was reported at 3 months in 13 study arms , a 0.3 % -1.8 % decrease at 6 months in 12 study arms , a 0.3 % -1.6 % decrease at 12 months with ongoing support in six study arms , and a 0.6 % -1.8 % decrease at > 12 months in four study arms. An initial series of encounters with follow-up visits and implementation of a variety of nutrition-therapy interventions , all of which reduced energy intake , were reported. Nutrition therapy also significantly decreased doses or number of glucose-lowering medications used and resulted in improvements in quality of life. Mixed effects on cardiovascular risk factors and body<symptom> weight were reported. Fourteen questions were identified related to nutrition-therapy interventions. A total of 38 studies met study criteria for the nutrition-intervention questions , from which 30 conclusion statements and 19 nutrition-practice guideline recommendations for T2D were written. Three additional NPG recommendations for T2D were written based on evidence reviewed by the American Diabetes Association. The 22 nutrition-intervention recommendations for T2D are summarized. How to implement nutrition-practice guideline recommendations effectively by health care providers and individuals with T2D remains challenging. Of importance , it is recognized that identifying and integrating EB digital health-technology tools into clinical practice are major challenges for future management of diabetes , self-management education , and support.