  Right ventricular ( RV) pacing can lead to progressive ventricular dysfunction over a certain period. This pacemaker-induced cardiomyopathy ( PiCMP) may be more common than previously reported. Speckle tracking imaging is a recent development in echocardiography that can identify left ventricular ( LV) dysfunction even before the LV ejection fraction ( LVEF) value decreases. Three-dimensional ( 3D) echocardiography has made more accurate assessment of LVEF possible. The objectives of this study are to study the incidence of RV PiCMP using 3D echocardiography and LV strain analysis over a follow-up of 6 months , and to identify its predictors. This is an observational study of consecutive patients without structural heart disease and with a baseline EF of more than 45 % who received a permanent pacemaker. They were observed over a 6-month period. PiCMP was defined as a decrease in LVEF by 10 percentage points or a decrease in LV strain by 15 % from baseline in the absence of other known causes of cardiomyopathy. PiCMP incidence and its associations were analyzed over a 6-month period. The incidence of PiCMP was not only significant over a period of 6 months but also at 24 hours. Significant drops in 3D EF were noted in one ( 2.8 %) patient at 24 hours and in another four ( 11.1 %) patients at 6 months. A significant decrease in LV global longitudinal strain was noted in 23 ( 63.9 %) patients by 6 months. In seven of these patients , there was significant decrease in global longitudinal strain 24 hours after implantation. In analyzing longitudinal strain , the parameter significantly influencing a decrease was a pacing percentage of ≥ 20 % ( PiCMP is not uncommon in patients undergoing pacemaker implantation and is associated with RV pacing. PiCMP was associated with a ventricular pacing percentage of ≥ 20 %. 3D echocardiography with LV strain analysis plays a vital role in identifying LV dysfunction at an earlier stage compared to EF. PiCMP , if picked up and intervened upon early , can help impede its progression.