  Direct intra-articular injection ( DIAI) of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs) is a promising technique for cartilage repair. However , the repair process was hindered by the absence of scaffold and poor cell-matrix interactions. In this study , we developed a pericellular collagen I coating ( PCC) on MSCs. The overall performances of MSC-PCC homing , chondrogenic differentiation , and cartilage regeneration have been comprehensively evaluated in a New Zealand rabbit model. Firstly , we examined the morphology and physical characteristics of PCC. Secondly , MSC ex-vivo cartilage slice adhesion and in-vivo cartilage defect homing were observed using multiscale methods. Thirdly , the precartilage condensation of cell pellets formed by aggregation of MSCs was examined to evaluate the cartilage-inducing potential of PCC. Finally , the cartilage regeneration by DIAI of PCC-coated MSCs was observed and scored macroscopically and histologically. In general , the cell adhesion and homing assay revealed that PCC facilitated MSC adhesion on cartilage slices , enhancing MSC homing and retention to cartilage defect. This increased homing ratio was accompanied by an increasing cell-cell contact. Compared with naked MSCs , the cell pellets formed by PCC-coated MSCs exhibited more evident appearance of condensation. In pellets , cell-cell interaction has been significantly stimulated , inducing the expression of condensation marker N-cadherin , and subsequent chondrogenic marker collagen II and aggrecan. By 12 weeks after DIAI , cartilage defects have been repaired by MSCs to varying degrees. Overall , PCC significantly enhances the quality of cartilage regeneration judging from macroscopic observation , ICRS score , histological examination , and collagen type I , II , and X immunohistochemical staining. The capacity and viability of MSCs can be enhanced by collagen I coating , which provides cues for enhancing cell homing and differentiation. Our method provides a novel strategy for stem cell therapy.