  Quahog Parasite Unknown ( QPX) is an opportunistic protistan pathogen of the clam Mercenaria mercenaria. Infections with QPX have caused significant economic losses in the Northeastern United States. Previous research demonstrated a geographic gradient for disease prevalence and intensity , but little information is available on the genetic diversity of the parasite throughout its distribution range. Also , QPX virulence factors are not well understood. This study addresses the occurrence of QPX genetic variants with a particular focus on functions involved in virulence and adaptation to environmental conditions. Analyses were performed using transcriptome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP) of four QPX isolates cultured from infected clams collected from disparate locations along the Northeastern United States. For contig assembly and mapping , two different genome builds and four transcriptomes of the parasite were examined. Genomic variants appeared at a differential rate relative to sequenced transcripts at 20.18 and 22.55 % occurrence under 1000 base pairs upstream and downstream protein domains respectively and at 57.26 % rate in protein domain coding sequences. QPX strains shared 30.50 % of the mutations and exhibited a preferential nucleotide substitution towards thymine. Sequence identity suggested relatedness between different QPX strains , with the parasite being possibly introduced to Virginia from the Massachusetts region during clam trading , while QPX could have been naturally present in New<pathogen> York. Diversity in virulence , temperature , and salinity domains suggested a common variability between strains , but with a preferential higher variation in local adaptation genes. This could explain differences in disease prevalence noted in different regions. Overall , the results supported views that this opportunistic parasite might be able to adapt to varying environmental conditions. Relatedness and mutations between the four QPX strains suggested that variability in environmental-related functions favors parasite survival , potentially promoting resilience against stressful conditions. These findings are in agreement with the widespread presence of QPX in the environment. Although QPX levels are enzootic in most areas , an increase in disease outbreaks were often associated with seasonal changes in environmental conditions. A selection mediated by the parasitic life of QPX remains possible , but the effect of the environment on the biology of the parasite appears more obvious.