  Clinical practice patterns greatly diverge from evidence-based recommendations to manage knee osteoarthritis conservatively before resorting to surgery. This study aimed to tailor a guideline-based computerized decision support ( CDS) intervention that facilitates the conservative management of knee osteoarthritis. Experts with backgrounds in clinical medicine , research , implementation , or health informatics suggested the most important recommendations for implementation , how to develop an implementation strategy , and how to form the CDS algorithms. In 6 focus group sessions , 8 general practitioners and 22 patients from Norway , Belgium , and Finland discussed the suggested CDS intervention and identified factors that would be most critical for the success of the intervention. The focus group moderators used the GUideline Implementation with DEcision Support checklist , which we developed to support consideration of CDS success factors. The experts prioritized 9 out of 22 recommendations for implementation. We formed the concept for 6 CDS algorithms to support implementation of these recommendations. The focus group suggested 59 unique factors that could affect the success of the presented CDS intervention. Five factors ( out of the 59) were prioritized by focus group participants in every country , including the perceived potential to address the information needs of both patients and general practitioners; the credibility of CDS information; the timing of CDS for patients; and the need for personal dialogue about CDS between the general practitioner and the patient. The focus group participants supported the CDS intervention as a tool to improve the quality of care for patients with knee osteoarthritis through shared , evidence-based decision making. We aim to develop and implement the CDS based on these study results. Future research should address optimal ways to ( 1) provide patient-directed CDS , ( 2) enable more patient-specific CDS within the context of patient complexity , and ( 3) maintain user engagement with CDS over time.