  Interpersonal violence can significantly reduce adolescents ' opportunities for becoming happy and healthy adults. Central America is the most violent region in the world and it is estimated that adolescents are involved in 82 % of all homicides in this region. Family skills training programmes have been designed to prevent interpersonal violence in adolescents. Several studies in high-income countries suggest they are effective. However , there are no published trials assessing effectiveness of these programmes in low- and middle-income countries ( LMIC). The aim of this study is to test the effectiveness of the Strengthening Families Programme 10-14 ( SFP 10-14 or `` Familias Fuertes '') in Panama , a LMIC in Central America. An embedded process evaluation will examine the extent to which the intervention is delivered as intended , variation across trial sites , influences on implementation and intervention-context interactions. Cost-effectiveness will also be assessed. This is a cluster randomised controlled trial. The 28 townships with the highest homicide rates in Panama will be randomly allocated to implementation of SFP 10-14 alongside services-as-usual or to services-as-usual only. Approximately 30 families will be recruited in each township , a total sample of 840 families. Families will be assessed at baseline , approximately eight weeks after baseline ( i.e. post intervention) , six months and 12 months after. The primary outcome measure will be the parent reported externalising subscale of the Child Behaviour Checklist at T3 ( i.e. , which is approximately 12 months after baseline). For the process evaluation , recruitment , attendance , fidelity and receipt will be measured. Qualitative interviews with facilitators , trainers , parents and adolescents will explore barriers/facilitators to implementation and intervention receipt. For the cost-effectiveness analysis , service use information will be gathered from parents and adolescents with a three-month recall period. Costs and consequences associated with implementation of the intervention will be identified. This trial will be the first to evaluate SFP 10-14 in a LMIC. Results have the potential to guide public policies for the prevention of interpersonal violence in Central America and beyond. ISRCTN Registry , 14023111. Registered on 13 July 2017.