  Cardiovascular disease ( CVD) is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Our study aimed to investigate the prevalence of two conditions , angina and stroke , and relevant risk factors among older adults in six low- and middle- income countries ( LMICs). The data was from World Health Organization ( WHO) Study on global AGEing and adult Health ( SAGE) Wave 1 in China , Ghana , India , Mexico , Russian Federation and South Africa. Presence of CVD was based on self-report of angina and stroke. Multivariate logistic regression was performed to examine the relationship between CVD and selected variables , including age , sex , urban/rural setting , household wealth , and risk factors such as smoking , alcohol drinking , fruit/vegetable intake , physical activity and BMI. The age standardized prevalence of angina ranged from 9.5 % ( South Africa) to 47.5 % ( Russian Federation) , and for stoke from 2.0 % ( India) to 6.1 % ( Russia). Hypertension was associated with angina in China , India and Russian Federation after adjustment for age , sex , urban/rural setting , education and marital status ( OR ranging from 1.3 ( 1.1-1.6) in India to 3.8 ( 2.9-5.0) in Russian Federation) , furthermore it was a risk factor of stroke in five countries except Mexico. Low or moderate physical activity were also associated with angina in China , and were also strongly associated with stroke in all countries except Ghana and India. Obesity had a stronger association with angina in Russian Federation and China ( ORs were 1.5 ( 1.1-2.0) and 1.2 ( 1.0-1.5) respectively) , and increased the risk of stroke in China. Smoking was associated with angina in India and South Africa ( ORs were 1.6 ( 1.0-2.4) and 2.1 ( 1.2-3.6) respectively) , and was also a risk factor of stroke in South Africa. We observed a stronger association between frequent heavy drinking and stroke in India. Household income was associated with reduced odds of angina in China , India and Russian Federation , however higher household income was a risk factor of angina in South Africa. While the specific mix of risk factors contribute to disease prevalence in different ways in these six countries- they should all be targeted in multi-sectoral efforts to reduce the high burden of CVD in today 's society.