  The majority of people with hypertension require more than one medication to achieve blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> control. Many patients are prescribed multipill antihypertensive regimens rather than single-pill fixed-dose combination ( FDC) treatment. Although FDC use may improve medication adherence , the impact on patient outcomes is unclear. We compared clinical outcomes and medication adherence with FDC therapy versus multipill combination therapy in a real-world setting using linked clinical and administrative databases. We conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of 13,350 individuals 66 years and older in Ontario , Canada with up to 5 years of follow-up. We included individuals who were newly initiated on one angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ( ACEI) or angiotensin II-receptor blocker ( ARB) plus one thiazide diuretic. High-dimensional propensity score matching was used to compare individuals receiving FDC versus multipill therapy. The primary outcome was a composite of death or hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction ( AMI) , heart<symptom> failure<symptom> , or stroke. We conducted 2 analyses to examine the association between adherence and patient outcomes. First , we performed an on-treatment analysis to determine whether outcomes differed between groups while patients were on treatment , censoring patients when they first discontinued treatment , defined as not receiving medications within 150 % of the previous days ' supply. Second , we conducted an intention-to-treat analysis that followed individuals allowing for breaks in treatment to quantify the difference in drug adherence between groups and assess its impact on clinical outcomes. As expected , there was no significant difference in the primary outcome between groups in the on-treatment analysis ( HR 1.06 , 95 % CI 0.86-1.31 , P = 0.60). In the intention-to-treat analysis , the proportion of total follow-up days covered with medications was significantly greater in the FDC group ( 70 %; IQR 19-98) than in the multipill group ( 42 % , IQR 11-91 , P < 0.01) , and the primary outcome was less frequent in FDC recipients ( 3.4 versus 3.9 events per 100 person-years; HR 0.89 , 95 % CI 0.81-0.97 , P < 0.01). The main limitations of this study were the lack of data regarding cause of death and blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> measurements and the possibility of residual confounding. Among older adults initiating combination antihypertensive treatment , FDC therapy was associated with a significantly lower risk of composite clinical outcomes , which may be related to better medication adherence.