  Soil rotational tillage is an effective measure to overcome the problems caused by long-term of a single tillage , but the effect of the interval time of rotational tillage practices is not very well understood. Therefore , we conducted a 3-year field study in a wheat-maize cropping system to evaluate the effects of rotary tillage ( RT) in rotation with plowing tillage ( PT) on soil properties in northern China. Four practices were designed as follows: 3 years of RT to a depth of 10-15 cm ( 3RT) , 3 years of PT to a depth of 30-35 cm ( 3 PT) , 1 year of PT followed by 2 years of RT ( PT +2 RT) , and 2 years of PT followed by 1 year of RT ( 2 PT+RT). Within 20 cm of the surface soil , the 3RT treatment significantly increased the soil quality index ( SQI) by 6.0 % , 8.8 % and 13.1 % , respectively , relative to the PT +2 RT , 2 PT+RT and 3 PT treatments. The improvement was closely related to the significant increase in the soil organic carbon ( SOC) and available nutrients concentrations in the 0-20 cm depths and the improvement of soil invertase , urease , alkaline phosphatase and catalase activities in the topsoil ( 0-10 cm). However , the opposite effects were observed in the subsoil ( 20-40 cm). Compared with the 3RT treatment , the 3 PT , 2 PT+RT and PT +2 RT treatments decreased soil bulk density , and significantly enhanced enzyme activities , resulting in an increase in SQI of 32.6 % , 24.4 % and 0.7 % , respectively , especially in the 3 PT and 2 PT+RT treatments , the difference was significant. When averaged across to all soil depths , the SQI under the 3RT and 2 PT+RT treatments was much higher than that under the other treatments. The yields of wheat and maize under the 2 PT+RT treatment were 15.0 % and 14.3 % higher than those under the 3RT treatment , respectively. The 2 PT+RT treatment was the most effective tillage practice. These results suggest that RT in rotation with PT could improve soil quality in the soil profile whilst enhancing crop yield after continuous RT , and the benefits were enhanced with an interval time of one year. Therefore , the 2 PT+RT treatment could act as an effective method for both soil quality and crop yield improvement in a wheat-maize cropping system under straw incorporation conditions.