  Subjective data and physical examinations of patients after total hip arthroplasty are used to assess the outcome. But regarding the physical activity , no objective data can be delivered by existing scores. The level of activity can be measured objectively by counting gait cycles. The aim of this study was to measure activity levels of patients before and after total hip arthroplasty ( THA). Forty-six patients were included in this prospective study. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis<disease> Index ( WOMAC) , Harris Hip Score ( HHS) , and physical activity level based on the number of steps per day were assessed 1 week before surgery , 6 weeks postoperatively , and 3 months postoperatively. To assess the general constitution of the patients , the American Society of Anesthesiologists ( ASA) score and BMI were determined. The physical activity level was measured by StepWatch 3 ™ Activity Monitor ( SAM; Orthocare Innovations , Seattle , WA , USA). The number of GCs per day was assessed. Spearman 's rank correlation coefficients were used to identify an association between age , body mass index ( BMI) , and American Society of Anesthesiologists classification with the number of gait cycles and to detect correlation between GCs and HHS and GCs and WOMAC. From preoperatively to 6 weeks postoperatively , the number of gait cycles did not alter significantly. Three months postoperatively , the number of GC/d and GC/h improved significantly. HHS and WOMAC improved significantly from before surgery to 6 weeks and to 3 months follow-up. The number of gait cycles per day did not correlate with the HHS and the WOMAC score at any point of measurement. Age , BMI , and ASA classification did not influence the results. By using a StepWatch 3 ™ Activity Monitor objective data about physical activity before and after THA can be measured reliable. Subjective and objective data in the postoperative period show different results. Physical activity seems to take longer to reach significantly improved values. By counting gait cycles , surgeons do have an additional tool to measure success after THA.