  Faecal incontinence ( FI) is a substantial health problem with a prevalence of approximately 8 % in community-dwelling populations. Sacral neuromodulation ( SNM) is considered the first-line surgical treatment option in adults with FI in whom conservative therapies have failed. The clinical efficacy of SNM has never been rigorously determined in a trial setting and the underlying mechanism of action remains unclear. The design encompasses a multicentre , randomised , double-blind crossover trial and cohort follow-up study. Ninety participants will be randomised to one of two groups ( SNM/SHAM or SHAM/SNM) in an allocation ratio of 1:1. The main inclusion criteria will be adults aged 18-75 years meeting Rome III and ICI definitions of FI , who have failed non-surgical treatments to the UK standard , who have a minimum of eight FI episodes in a 4-week screening period , and who are clinically suitable for SNM. The primary objective is to estimate the clinical efficacy of sub-sensory SNM vs. SHAM at 32 weeks based on the primary outcome of frequency of FI episodes using a 4-week paper diary , using mixed Poisson regression analysis on the intention-to-treat principle. The study is powered ( 0.9) to detect a 30 % reduction in frequency of FI episodes between sub-sensory SNM and SHAM stimulation over a 32-week crossover period. Secondary objectives include: measurement of established and new clinical outcomes after 1 year of therapy using new ( 2017 published) optimised therapy ( with standardised SNM-lead placement); validation of new electronic outcome measures ( events) and a device to record them , and identification of potential biological effects of SNM on underlying anorectal afferent neuronal pathophysiology ( hypothesis: SNM leads to increased frequency of perceived transient anal sphincter relaxations; improved conscious<symptom> sensation<symptom> of defaecatory urge and cortical/subcortical changes in afferent responses to anorectal electrical stimulation ( main techniques: high-resolution anorectal manometry and magnetoencephalography). This trial will determine clinical effect size for sub-sensory chronic electrical stimulation of the sacral innervation. It will provide experimental evidence of modifiable afferent neurophysiology that may aid future patient selection as well as a basic understanding of the pathophysiology of FI. International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number: ISRCTN98760715. Registered on 15 September 2017.