  In the public transport industry , travellers ' perceived satisfaction is a key element in understanding their evaluation of , and loyalty to ridership. Despite its notable importance , studies of customer satisfaction are under-represented in the literature , and most previous studies are based on survey data collected from a single city only. This does not allow a comparison across different transport systems. To address this underrepresentation , this paper reports on a study of train passengers ' satisfaction with the fare paid for their most recent home-based train trip in five Australian capital cities: Sydney , Melbourne , Brisbane , Adelaide , and Perth. Two data sources are used: a nation-wide survey , and objective information on the train fare structure in each of the targeted cities. In particular , satisfaction with train fares is modelled as a function of socio-economic factors and train trip characteristics , using a random parameters ordered Logit model that accounts for unobserved heterogeneity in the population. Results indicate that gender , city of origin , transport mode from home to the train station , eligibility for either student or senior concession fare , one-way cost , and waiting time as well as five diverse interaction variables between city of origin and socio-economic factors are the key determinants of passenger satisfaction with train fares. In particular , this study reveals that female respondents tend to be less satisfied with their train fare than their male counterparts. Interestingly , respondents who take the bus to the train station tend to feel more satisfied with their fare compared with the rest of the respondents. In addition , notable heterogeneity is detected across respondents ' perceived satisfaction with train fare , specifically with regard to the one-way cost and the waiting time incurred. An intercity comparison reveals that a city 's train fare structure also affects a traveller 's perceived satisfaction with their train fare. The findings of this research are significant for both policy makers and transport operators , allowing them to understand traveller behaviours , and to subsequently formulate effective transit policies.