  Alzheimer & rsquo; s disease ( AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by cognitive deficits , neuroinflammation , and neuronal death. The primary pathogenic cause is believed to be the accumulation of pathogenic amyloid beta ( A & beta ;-RRB- assemblies in the brain. Ghrelin , which is a peptide hormone predominantly secreted from the stomach , is an endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue-receptor type 1a ( GHS-R1a). MK-0677 is a ghrelin agonist that potently stimulates the GHS-R1a ghrelin receptor. Interestingly , previous studies have shown that ghrelin improves cognitive impairments and attenuates neuronal death and neuroinflammation in several neurological disorders. However , it is unknown whether MK-0677 can affect A & beta; accumulation or A & beta;- mediated pathology in the brains of patients with AD. Therefore , we examined the effects of MK-0677 administration on AD-related pathology in 5XFAD mice , an A & beta;- overexpressing transgenic mouse model of AD. MK-0677 was intraperitoneally administered to three-month-old 5XFAD mice. To visualize A & beta; accumulation , neuroinflammation , and neurodegeneration , thioflavin-S staining and immunostaining with antibodies against A & beta; ( 4G8) , ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 ( Iba-1) , glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP) , neuronal nuclear antigen ( NeuN) , and synaptophysin were conducted in the neocortex of 5XFAD and wild-type mice , and to evaluate changes of phosphorylated cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP) response element binding protein ( pCREB) levels , immunostaining with antibody against pCREB was performed in dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of 5XFAD and wild-type mice. The histological analyses indicated that MK-0677-treated 5XFAD mice showed reduced A & beta; deposition , gliosis , and neuronal and synaptic loss in the deep cortical layers , and inhibited the decrement of pCREB levels in dentate gyrus of the hippocampus compared to vehicle-treated 5XFAD mice. Our results showed that activation of the ghrelin receptor with MK-0677 inhibited the A & beta; burden , neuroinflammation , and neurodegeneration , which suggested that MK-0677 might have potential as a treatment of the early phase of AD.