  Prostate cancer is a leading cause of cancer among men. Because screening for prostate cancer is a controversial issue , many experts in the field have defended the use of shared decision making using validated decision aids , which can be presented in different formats ( eg , written , multimedia , Web). Recent studies have concluded that decision aids improve knowledge and reduce decisional conflict. This meta-analysis aimed to investigate the impact of using Web-based decision aids to support men 's prostate cancer screening decisions in comparison with usual care and other formats of decision aids. We searched PubMed , CINAHL , PsycINFO , and Cochrane CENTRAL databases up to November 2016. This search identified randomized controlled trials , which assessed Web-based decision aids for men making a prostate cancer screening decision and reported quality of decision-making outcomes. Two reviewers independently screened citations for inclusion criteria , extracted data , and assessed risk of bias. Using a random-effects model , meta-analyses were conducted pooling results using mean differences ( MD) , standardized mean differences ( SMD) , and relative risks ( RR). Of 2406 unique citations , 7 randomized controlled trials met the inclusion criteria. For risk of bias , selective outcome reporting and participant/personnel blinding were mostly rated as unclear due to inadequate reporting. Based on seven items , two studies had high risk of bias for one item. Compared to usual care , Web-based decision aids increased knowledge ( SMD 0.46; 95 % CI 0.18-0.75) , reduced decisional conflict ( MD -7.07 %; 95 % CI -9.44 to -4.71) , and reduced the practitioner control role in the decision-making process ( RR 0.50; 95 % CI 0.31-0.81). Web-based decision aids compared to printed decision aids yielded no differences in knowledge , decisional conflict , and participation in decision or screening behaviors. Compared to video decision aids , Web-based decision aids showed lower average knowledge scores ( SMD -0.50; 95 % CI -0.88 to -0.12) and a slight decrease in prostate-specific antigen screening ( RR 1.12; 95 % CI 1.01-1.25). According to this analysis , Web-based decision aids performed similarly to alternative formats ( ie , printed , video) for the assessed decision-quality outcomes. The low cost , readiness , availability , and anonymity of the Web can be an advantage for increasing access to decision aids that support prostate cancer screening decisions among men.