  Dengue viruses are responsible for over 100 million infections a year worldwide and are a public health concern in Bangladesh. Although risk of transmission is high , data on vector population characteristics are scanty in Bangladesh; therefore , a comprehensive prediction of the patterns of local virus transmission is not possible. Recognizing these gaps , multi-year entomological surveys were carried out in Dhaka , where the disease is most frequently reported. The specific objectives of the present study are threefold: i) to determine the risk factors for the presence of Aedes<pathogen> mosquitoes; ii) to identify the types of most productive and key containers; and iii) to estimate the effects of climatic factors on Aedes<pathogen> abundance in the city of Dhaka , Bangladesh. Entomological surveys were conducted in 12 out of 90 wards in Dhaka. These wards were selected using a probability proportional sampling procedure during the monsoon seasons in 2011 , 2012 and 2013 and in the dry season in 2012. All containers inside and around sampled households were inspected for mosquito larvae and pupae , and containers were classified according to their relative size , use pattern , and materials of construction. During the study period ( 2011-2013) , 12,680 larvae and pupae were collected. About 82 % of the identified immature mosquitoes were Aedes<pathogen> aegypti , while the remainder were Ae. albopictus and other mosquito species. The largest number of immature mosquitoes was collected from tires and refrigerator trays during 2011 and 2012 monsoon seasons. Conversely , plastic drums were the most productive during the 2012 dry and 2013 monsoon season. Vehicle parts and discarded construction materials were the most efficient producers of Aedes<pathogen> mosquitoes in all surveys. The presence of Aedes<pathogen> mosquitoes was significantly ( p < 0.05) higher in low socio-economic zones of Dhaka. Container location , presence of vegetation , and availability of shade for containers were also significantly associated with finding immature Aedes<pathogen> mosquitoes , based on multivariable analysis after confounder adjustment. Rainfall , temperature , and relative humidity also significantly affected the mean abundance of mosquitoes. Proper use , disposal , and recycling of the containers that effectively produce large numbers of Aedes<pathogen> vector mosquitoes may decrease the risk of arboviral transmission.