  Interpersonal sensitivity , particularly threat of potential exclusion , is a critical condition in borderline personality disorder ( BPD) which impairs patients ' social adjustment. Current evidence-based treatments include group components , such as mentalization-based group therapy ( MBT-G) , in order to improve interpersonal functioning. These treatments additionally focus on the therapeutic alliance since it was discovered to be a robust predictor of treatment outcome. However , alliance is a multidimensional factor of group therapy , which includes the fellow patients , and may thus be negatively affected by the exclusion-proneness of BPD patients. The aim of this pilot study was to examine the predictive value of threat of social exclusion for the therapeutic alliance in MBT-G. In the first part of the study , social exclusion was experimentally induced in 23 BPD inpatients and 28 healthy subjects using the Cyberball paradigm , a virtual ball tossing game. The evoked level of threat was measured with the Need-Threat Scale ( NTS) which captures four dimensions of fundamental human needs , i.e. , the need for belongingness , for self-esteem , for control , and for a meaningful existence. In the second part of the study , therapeutic alliance was measured on three dimensions , the therapists , the fellow patients and the group as a whole , using the Group-Questionnaire ( GQ-D). BPD patients scored higher in their level of threat according to the NTS in both , the inclusion and the exclusion condition. The level of threat after exclusion predicted impairments of the therapeutic alliance in MBT-G. It was associated with more negative relationships , lower positive bonding and a lower positive working alliance with the fellow patients and lower positive bonding to the group as a whole whilst no negative prediction of the alliance to the therapists was found. Consequently , our translational study design has shown that Cyberball is an appropriate tool to use as an approach for clinical questions. We further conclude that exclusion-proneness in BPD is a critical feature with respect to alliance in group treatments. In order to neutralize BPD patients ' exclusion bias , therapists may be advised to provide an `` inclusive stance , '' especially in initial sessions. It is also recommendable to strengthen patient to patient relations.