  Chronic noise exposure is associated with neuroinflammation and gut microbiota dysregulation and increases the risk of Alzheimer 's disease ( AD). Environmental hazards are also thought to be associated with genetic susceptibility factors that increase AD pathogenesis. However , there is limited experimental evidence regarding the link between chronic noise stress and microbiome-gut-brain axis alterations , which may be closely related to AD development. The aim of the present study was to systematically investigate the effects of chronic noise exposure on the microbiome-gut-brain axis in the senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 ( SAMP8) strain. We established SAMP8 mouse models to examine the consequences of noise exposure on the microbiome-gut-brain axis. Hippocampal amyloid-β ( Aβ) assessment and the Morris water maze were used to evaluate AD-like changes , 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing analyses were used for intestinal flora measurements , and assessment of endothelial tight junctions and serum neurotransmitter and inflammatory mediator levels , as well as fecal microbiota transplant , was conducted to explore the underlying pathological mechanisms. Chronic noise exposure led to cognitive impairment and Aβ accumulation in young SAMP8 mice , similar to that observed in aging SAMP8 mice. Noise exposure was also associated with decreased gut microbiota diversity and compositional alterations. Axis-series studies showed that endothelial tight junction proteins were decreased in both the intestine and brain , whereas serum neurotransmitter and inflammatory mediator levels were elevated in young SAMP8 mice exposed to chronic noise , similar to the observations made in the aging group. The importance of intestinal bacteria in noise exposure-induced epithelial integrity impairment and Aβ accumulation was further confirmed through microbiota transplantation experiments. Moreover , the effects of chronic noise were generally intensity-dependent. Chronic noise exposure altered the gut microbiota , accelerated age-related neurochemical and inflammatory dysregulation , and facilitated AD-like changes in the brain of SAMP8 mice.