  A central objective of recent U.S. healthcare policy reform , most notably the Affordable Care Act 's ( ACA -RRB- Health Insurance Marketplace , has been to increase access to stable , affordable health insurance. However , changing market dynamics ( rising premiums , changes in issuer participation and plan availability) raise significant concerns about the marketplaces ' ability to provide a stable source of healthcare for Americans that rely on them. By looking at the effect of instability on changes in the consumer choice set , we can analyze potential incentives to switch plans among price-sensitive enrollees , which can then be used to inform policy going forward. Data on health plan features for non-tobacco users in 2512 counties in 34 states participating in federally-facilitated exchanges from 2014 to 2016 was obtained from the Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services. We examined how changes in individual plan features , including premiums , deductibles , issuers , and plan types , impact consumers who had purchased the lowest-cost silver or bronze plan in their county the previous year. We calculated the cost of staying in the same plan versus switching to another plan the following year , and analyzed how costs vary across geographic regions. In most counties in 2015 and 2016 ( 53.7 and 68.2 % , respectively) , the lowest-cost silver plan from the previous year was still available , but was no longer the cheapest plan. In these counties , consumers who switched to the new lowest-cost plan would pay less in monthly premiums on average , by $ 51.48 and $ 55.01 , respectively , compared to staying in the same plan. Despite potential premium savings from switching , however , the majority would still pay higher average premiums compared to the previous year , and most would face higher deductibles and an increased probability of having to change provider networks. While the ACA has shown promise in expanding healthcare access , continued changes in the availability and affordability of health plans are likely to result in churning and switching among enrollees , which may have negative ramifications for their health going forward. Future healthcare policy reform should aim to stabilize marketplace dynamics in order to encourage greater care continuity and limit churning.