  Food choices are often determined by stimuli from our immediate surroundings , including strategic placement in shops to encourage impulse purchases. One example of this is food in shop checkout areas. Recently a number of UK supermarkets have voluntarily committed to providing healthier checkout foods. The aim of this study was to document the nature of current UK supermarket checkout food policies; determine whether there are any differences in the healthfulness and type of food displayed at checkouts in supermarkets according to the presence or nature of policies; and determine whether supermarkets are adhering to their checkout food policies. Survey of checkout food policies. Cross-sectional observations in 69 supermarkets ( covering 14 store formats) in the East of England in Feb-May 2017 of the number and type of checkout foods on each ` checkout journey ' ( each possible route through the checkout area). Checkout foods were categorised as less healthy or healthier , using the UK Food Standard 's Agency 's Nutrient Profile Model , and into food groups. Checkout food policies were categorised as clear and consistent , vague or inconsistent , or absent. Checkout food policies differed between store formats in some supermarket groups. Across the 14 store formats included , two had no checkout food policy , six had ` clear and consistent ' policies , and six ` vague or inconsistent ' policies. In supermarkets with clear and consistent policies there were a median of 13 products per checkout journey , of which 35 % were less healthy. Comparable figures for supermarkets with vague or inconsistent , and absent policies were 15 ( 57 %) and 39 ( 90 %) respectively ( ps for trend < 0.001). Whilst most supermarkets with a clear and consistent checkout food policy were fully adherent to their policy , those with vague or inconsistent policies were not. Most UK supermarkets have checkout food policies , but not all are clear and consistent. Supermarkets with clear and consistent policies display fewer checkout foods and a lower proportion of these are less healthy than in other supermarkets. Supermarkets with clear and consistent policies adhere well to these. More stores should be encouraged to develop a clear and consistent checkout food policy. This may require non-voluntary intervention.