  Although factor Xa inhibitors have become a popular choice for chronic oral anticoagulation , effective drug reversal remains difficult due to a lack of specific antidote. Currently , 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate ( 4F-PCC) is considered the treatment of choice for factor Xa inhibitor-related major bleeding. However , safety of 4F-PCC and its risk of thrombosis when used for this off-label purpose remain unclear. The purpose of this retrospective study is to determine the rate of thromboembolism when 4F-PCC is used for the emergent reversal of factor Xa inhibitors. We conducted a single-center retrospective review of medical records between 2013 and 2017. Patients were included if they received 4F-PCC to reverse rivaroxaban , apixaban , or edoxaban for emergent invasive procedures or during episodes of major bleeding defined as bleeding with hemodynamic<symptom> instability<symptom> , fall in hemoglobin of 2 g/dL , or bleeding requiring blood transfusion. Thrombotic events including myocardial infarction , pulmonary embolism , deep vein thrombosis , cerebral vascular accident , and arterial thrombosis of the limb or mesentery were recorded if they occurred within 14 days of 4F-PCC administration. Data was analyzed using point and interval estimation to approximate the rate and confidence interval of thromboembolic events. Forty-three patients were identified in our review. Doses of 4F-PCC were determined by the treating physician and mainly ranged from 25 to 50 IU/kg. Twenty-two patients ( 51.2 %) received both sequential compression devices ( SCDs) and subcutaneous heparin for DVT prophylaxis. Twenty-one patients ( 48.8 %) were placed on SCDs only. Three patients received concomitant FFP. Thrombotic events within 14 days of 4F-PCC administration occurred in 1 out of 43 patients ( 2.1 % , 95 % CI ( 0.1-12.3)). This thrombotic event was an upper extremity DVT which occurred 1 day after the patient received 1325 IU ( 25 IU/kg) of 4F-PCC to reverse rivaroxaban for traumatic intracranial hemorrhage<symptom>. The patient was taken for emergent decompressive craniotomy after rivaroxaban reversal. In patients who did not undergo surgery or who underwent minor invasive procedures , no thrombotic events were noted. Based on our preliminary data , the thromboembolic rate of 4F-PCC when given at a dose of 25-50 IU/kg to emergently reverse rivaroxaban and apixaban appears acceptable. Since many patients who require 4F-PCC to emergently reverse factor Xa inhibitors will be at high risk of developing thrombotic events , practitioners should be highly vigilant of these complications. Large , multicenter prospective trials are needed to further determine this risk.