  In Western countries dogs and cats are the most popular pets , and people are increasingly opposed to their rearing for the fur industry. In 2007 , a Regulation of the European Union ( EU) banned the use and trade of dog and cat furs , but an official analytical protocol to identify them as source species was not provided , and violations of law are still frequent in all Member States. In this paper we report on the development and validation of a simple and affordable DNA method for species detection in furs to use as an effective tool to combat illegal trade in fur products. A set of mitochondrial primers was designed for amplification of partial cytochrome b , control region and ND1 gene in highly degraded samples , like furs and pelts. Our amplification workflow involved the use of a non-specific primer pair to perform a first test to identify the species through sequencing , then the application of species-specific primer pairs to use in singleplex end-point PCRs as confirmation tests. The advantage of this two-step procedure is twofold: on the one hand it minimises the possibility of negative test results from degraded samples , since failure of amplification with a first set of primers can be offset by successful amplification of the second , and on the other it adds confidence and reliability to final authentication of species. All designed primers were validated on a reference collection of tissue samples , obtaining solid results in terms of specificity , sensitivity , repeatability and reproducibility. Application of the protocol on real caseworks from seized furs yielded successful results also from old and dyed furs , suggesting that age and chemical staining do not necessarily affect positive amplifications. Major pros of this approach are: ( 1) sensitive and informative primer sets for detection of species; ( 2) short PCR amplicons for the analysis of poor quality DNA; ( 3) binding primers that avoid contamination from human DNA; ( 4) user-friendly protocol for any laboratory equipped for analysis of low-copy-number DNA. Our molecular procedure proved to be a good starting point for enforcing the EU Regulation against dog and cat fur trade in forensic contexts where source attribution is essential to the assignment of responsibilities.