  Assessing the perception of key stakeholders within the forest<disease> sector is critical to evaluating their readiness to engage in adapting to climate change. Here , we report the results of the most comprehensive survey carried out in the Canadian forestry sector to date regarding perceptions of climate change. A total of 1158 individuals , representing a wide range of stakeholders across the five most important forestry provinces in Canada , were asked about climate change , its impact on forest<disease> ecosystems , and the suitability of current forest<disease> management for addressing future impacts. Overall , we found that respondents were more concerned about climate change than the general population. More than 90 % of respondents agreed with the anthropogenic origins of climate change , and > 50 % considered it a direct threat to their welfare. Political view was the main driver of general beliefs about the causes of climate change and its future consequences , while the province of origin proved to be the best predictor of perceived current impacts on forest<disease> ecosystems and its associated risks; and type of stakeholder was the main driver of perceived need for adaptation. Industrial stakeholders were the most skeptical about the anthropogenic cause ( s) of climate change ( 18 % disagreed with this statement , compared to an average of 8 % in the other stakeholders) , its impacts on forest<disease> ecosystems ( 28 % for industry vs. 10 % for other respondents) , and the need for new management practices ( 18 % vs. 7 %). Although the degree of awareness and the willingness to implement adaptive practices were high even for the most skeptical groups , our study identified priority sectors or areas for action when designing awareness campaigns. We suggest that the design of a strategic framework for implementing climate adaptation within the Canadian forest<disease> sector should focus on the relationship between climate change and changes in disturbance regimes , and above all on the economic consequences of these changes , but it should also take into account the positions shown by each of the actors in each province.