  Pulmonary arteriovenous malformations ( PAVMs) often occur in children with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ( HHT). A 14-year longitudinal study of PAVMs in children with HHT was undertaken to assess the prevalence , the clinical impact , and progression of these malformations. This was a retrospective , single-center study from May 2002 to December 2016 of 129 children with HHT diagnosed using Curacao criteria and/or confirmed by genetic testing. Transthoracic contrast echocardiography ( TTCE) was the primary screening modality in all patients and PAVMs were diagnosed based on Barzilai criteria. Moderately positive TTCE ( Barzilai criteria ≥ 2) was confirmed with subsequent contrast chest CT.. New PAVMs were diagnosed with a positive TTCE after an initial negative TTCE. Embolization of PAVMs were performed according to HHT consensus guidelines. Of 129 children with HHT , 76 ( 59 %) were found to have PAVMs. Sixty-seven ( 88 %) were positive for PAVMs on initial screening. Of 63 children without PAVMs on initial screening , 31 were followed for > 1 year. Nine of the 31 ( 29 %) developed new PAVMs after initial negative study. Thirty-eight ( 50 %) of the total 76 children with PAVMs had or developed lesions<symptom> large enough to be treated with embolization. Nine patients with PAVMs initially too small to be treated with embolization , developed progression of disease and ultimately were treated with embolization over time. The majority , 60 % ( 23/38) , of the children with large PAVMs had no related clinical symptoms. After embolization , 21 % ( 8/38) , of patients underwent repeat interventions. Genetic diagnosis , age , and gender were not associated with risk of having PAVM nor with need for repeat interventions. Nearly 60 % of children with HHT develop PAVMs. The risk for new PAVMs to develop , small PAVMs to become large , and previously embolized PAVMs to require further intervention remains throughout childhood. Thus , children with HHT require continued follow-up until adulthood.