  This study sought to identify factors associated with retinal detachment and retreatment of aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity ( APROP) initially treated with intravitreal ranibizumab ( IVR) injection as well as the efficacy of IVR treatment. This was a retrospective study. A total of 83 preterm infants ( 160 eyes) diagnosed with APROP who were primarily treated with IVR were included. The 160 eyes were divided into two groups based on the anatomic outcomes. Group A included 35 eyes that developed retinal detachment , and Group B included 125 eyes without retinal detachment. The following patient factors were retrospectively reviewed: gender , gestational age ( GA) , birth weight ( BW) , postmenstrual age ( PMA) at first treatment , iris neovascularizations , retinal hemorrhage<symptom> , neutrophil and lymphocyte<symptom> counts before the first intravitreal injection , neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR) , anatomical outcomes , additional treatment and follow-up time. Three dummy variables were created as dependent variables based on the methods of retreatment. The possible risk factors for APROP were evaluated , and statistical analyses included univariate and multivariate logistic regression. A total of 160 eyes from 83 preterm infants ( 56 males and 27 females) underwent initial IVR treatment with a follow-up time of 17.17 ± 10.54 months. Thirty-five of the 160 ( 21.9 %) eyes progressed to retinal detachment , and 82 of the 125 ( 65.6 %) non-retinal detachment eyes needed retreatment , with favorable anatomical outcomes. The disease improved approximately 1.5 ± 1.2 weeks after the first IVR treatment. The mean recurrence period of APROP was approximately 7.5 ± 6.9 weeks after the first IVR treatment. Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed postmenstrual age ( P < 0.001) and neutrophil count ( P = 0.009) as the most significant factors for retinal detachment in APROP. Retinal hemorrhage<symptom> ( P = 0.007) and BW ( P = 0.04) were most significantly associated with APROP recurrence and retreatment. IVR injection is an effective treatment for APROP. In this study , older postmenstrual age and low neutrophil count were identified as risk factors for retinal detachment in APROP. In addition , retinal hemorrhage<symptom> and low BW were significantly associated with recurrence and retreatment in non-retinal detachment APROP. Thus , patients with a lower BW , older postmenstrual age , low neutrophil count and retinal hemorrhage<symptom> should be reexamined in a timely and more frequent manner.