  The ability of winter wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) plants to develop freezing tolerance through cold acclimation is a complex rait that responds to many environmental cues including day length and temperature. A large part of the freezing tolerance is conditioned by the C-repeat binding factor ( CBF) gene regulon. We investigated whether the level of freezing tolerance of 12 winter wheat lines varied throughout the day and night in plants grown under a constant low temperature and a 12-hour photoperiod. Freezing tolerance was significantly greater ( P < 0.0001) when exposure to subfreezing temperatures began at the midpoint of the light period , or the midpoint of the dark period , compared to the end of either period , with an average of 21.3 % improvement in survival. Thus , freezing survival was related to the photoperiod , but cycled from low , to high , to low within each 12-hour light period and within each 12-hour dark period , indicating ultradian cyclic variation of freezing tolerance. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis of expression levels of CBF genes 14 and 15 indicated that expression of these two genes also varied cyclically , but essentially 180 ° out of phase with each other. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance analysis ( 1H-NMR) showed that the chemical composition of the wheat plants ' cellular fluid varied diurnally , with consistent separation of the light and dark phases of growth. A compound identified as glutamine was consistently found in greater concentration in a strongly freezing-tolerant wheat line , compared to moderately and poorly freezing-tolerant lines. The glutamine also varied in ultradian fashion in the freezing-tolerant wheat line , consistent with the ultradian variation in freezing tolerance , but did not vary in the less-tolerant lines. These results suggest at least two distinct signaling pathways , one conditioning freezing tolerance in the light , and one conditioning freezing tolerance in the dark; both are at least partially under the control of the CBF regulon.