  The objective of the study was to determine the factorial structure and test the measurement invariance of the EAT-26 in a large probability sample of young female university students in Qatar ( The maximum number of factors was derived based on results from initial exploratory factor analysis ( EFA) in the first-half of the randomly split sample ( Sample 1). A subsequent EFA and Exploratory Structural Equation Models ( ESEM) were conducted to identify the number of valid factors. A five-factor model with 19 items was identified as the optimal factor structure. This structure was further replicated using ESEM in the second-half of the sample ( Sample 2). Multi-group Confirmatory Factor Analyses ( CFAs) were conducted at this stage and their fit was evaluated with and without further sub-grouping by language ( Arabic and English) and BMI ( underweight , normal weight , and overweight/obese). Finally , measurement invariance tests were conducted in the entire sample assessing equivalence across language and BMI within the final five-factor model. The five-factor structure of the new EAT-19 ( fear of getting fat ( FGF) , eating-related control ( ERC) , food preoccupation ( FP) , vomiting-purging behavior ( VPB) , and social pressure to gain weight ( SP)) provided the best fit: CFI = 0.976 , TLI = 0.952 , RMSEA = 0.045 ( 90 % CI 0.039-0.051) , SRMR = 0.018 , CD = 1.000. CFAs supported metric invariance for language and for BMI. Language and BMI-based population heterogeneity comparisons provided modest and small-to-moderate evidence for differential factor means , respectively. Although the five-factor model of the EAT-19 demonstrated good item characteristics and reliability in this young female population , the lack of scalar invariance across language and BMI-categories pose measurement challenges for use of this scale for screening purposes. Future studies should develop culture- and BMI-specific cut-offs when using the EAT as a screening instrument for disordered eating in non-clinical populations.