  Children living on farms experience exceptionally high risks for traumatic injury. There is a large body of epidemiological research documenting this phenomenon , yet few complementary studies that have explored the deep underlying reasons for such trends. Fundamental to this is understanding the decision-making processes of parents surrounding their choice to bring children , or not , into the farm worksite. To ( 1) document farm parent views of the risks and benefits of raising children on a family farm , and , ( 2) understand more deeply why children are brought into the farm worksite. Interviews were conducted as part of a larger cohort study , The Saskatchewan Farm Injury Cohort. Subsequent to an initial mail-out question focused on parental decision-making , 11 semi-structured telephone interviews were conducted with rural Saskatchewan farm parents. Interviews were digitally recorded and transcribed verbatim , then thematically analyzed using interpretive description methodology. This parental decision-making process on farms fundamentally involves weighing the risks vs. benefits of bringing children into the worksite , as if on a balance<symptom> scale. One side of this scale holds potential risks such as exposure to physical and chemical farm hazards , in the absence of full supervision. The other side holds potential benefits such as meeting family needs for childcare , labour , and family time; building work ethic and pride; and the positive impacts of involvement and responsibility. Decision-making ` tips the scales ' , in part dependent upon parental perceptions of the risk-benefit trade-off. This ` perceptual lens ' is influenced by factors such as: the agricultural way of life , parents ' prior knowledge and past experience , characteristics of children , and safety norms. This novel qualitative study provides deep insight into how Saskatchewan farm parents approach a fundamental decision-making process associated with their parenting. The proposed model provides insight into the etiology of pediatric farm injuries as well as their prevention.