  The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic literature review on the burden of schizophrenia in privately insured US patients. A systematic literature review of English language peer-reviewed journal articles of observational studies published from 2006 to 2016 was conducted using EMBASE/MEDLINE databases. Abstracts covering substantial numbers of patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder ( i.e. , N ≥ 100) were included for full-text review. Articles that did not clearly specify private insurance types were excluded. A total of 25 studies were reviewed; 10 included only privately insured patients; and 15 included a mix of different types of insurance. The review of the clinical burden of schizophrenia revealed the following: compared to patients with no mental disorders , those with schizophrenia had significantly increased odds of systemic disorders and both alcohol and substance abuse. Antipsychotic ( AP) adherence was low , ranging from 31.5 % to 68.7 %. The medication possession ratio for AP adherence ranged from 0.22 to 0.73. The review of the health economic burden of schizophrenia revealed the following: patients with a recent ( vs. chronic) diagnosis of schizophrenia had significantly higher frequencies of emergency department visits and hospitalizations and greater length of stay ( LOS) and total annual per-capita costs. Mean all-cause hospitalizations and LOS decreased significantly after ( vs. before) initiating long-acting injectable APs ( LAIs). Patients also had significantly decreased mean all-cause , and schizophrenia-related , hospitalization costs after initiating LAIs. Total direct per-capita costs of care ( but not pharmacy costs) for patients who were nonadherent to their oral APs within the first 90 days of their index event were significantly higher ( vs. early adherent patients). Despite these potential benefits , only 0.25 % -13.1 % of patients were treated with LAIs across all studies. Privately insured US patients with schizophrenia experience a substantial clinical and health economic burden related to comorbidities , acute care needs , nonadherence , and polypharmacy and have relatively low use of LAIs. Further study is warranted to understand prescribing patterns and clinical policies related to this patient population.