  Robot-assisted ankle-foot-orthosis ( AFO) can provide immediate powered ankle assistance in post-stroke gait training. Our research team has developed a novel lightweight portable robot-assisted AFO which is capable of detecting walking intentions using sensor feedback of wearer 's gait pattern. This study aims to investigate the therapeutic effects of robot-assisted gait training with ankle dorsiflexion assistance. This was a double-blinded randomized controlled trial. Nineteen chronic stroke patients with motor impairment at ankle participated in 20-session robot-assisted gait training for about five weeks , with 30-min over-ground walking and stair ambulation practices. Robot-assisted AFO either provided active powered ankle assistance during swing phase in Robotic Group ( n = 9) , or torque impedance at ankle joint as passive AFO in Sham Group ( n = 10). Functional assessments were performed before and after the 20-session gait training with 3-month Follow-up. Primary outcome measure was gait independency assessed by Functional Ambulatory Category ( FAC). Secondary outcome measures were clinical scores including Fugl-Meyer Assessment ( FMA) , Modified Ashworth Scale ( MAS) , Berg Balance Scale ( BBS) , Timed 10-Meter Walk Test ( 10MWT) , Six-minute Walk Test ( SMWT) , supplemented by gait analysis. All outcome measures were performed in unassisted gait after patients had taken off the robot-assisted AFO. Repeated-measures analysis of covariance was conducted to test the group differences referenced to clinical scores before training. After 20-session robot-assisted gait training with ankle dorsiflexion assistance , the active ankle assistance in Robotic Group induced changes in gait pattern with improved gait independency ( all patients FAC ≥ 5 post-training and 3-month follow-up) , motor recovery , walking speed , and greater confidence in affected side loading response ( vertical ground reaction force + 1.49 N/kg , peak braking force + 0.24 N/kg) with heel strike instead of flat foot touch-down at initial contact ( foot tilting + 1.91 °). Sham Group reported reduction in affected leg range of motion ( ankle dorsiflexion- 2.36 ° and knee flexion- 8.48 °) during swing. Robot-assisted gait training with ankle dorsiflexion assistance could improve gait independency and help stroke patients developing confidence in weight acceptance , but future development of robot-assisted AFO should consider more lightweight and custom-fit design. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02471248. Registered 15 June 2015 retrospectively registered.