  Curative effect of posterior lumbar interbody fusion ( PLIF) in the treatment of single-segment lumbar degenerative disease and changes in adjacent segment quantitative score was investigated. A total of 86 patients with single-segment lumbar degenerative disease were randomly selected and divided into control group ( n = 43) and observation group ( n = 43). The control group was treated with posterolateral lumbar fusion , while the observation group was treated with PLIF. The observation group had a significantly longer operation time and shorter hospitalization time compared with the control group ( P < 0.05). The excellent-good rate of treatment in the observation group ( 90.69 %) was obviously higher than that in the control group ( 62.79 %) ( P < 0.05). The levels of creatine phosphokinase in the two groups were significantly increased at 1 , 3 and 5 days after operation ( P < 0.05) , and reached the peak at 1 day after operation and returned to normal basically at 7 days after operation. Oswestry disability index in the observation group at 1 , 6 and 12 months after operation were significantly lower than those in the control group ( P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in the MRI-T2 relaxation time of multifidus muscle at 3 months after operation between the two groups ( P > 0.05). The grade I and II interbody fusion rates in the observation group at 12 months after operation were significantly higher than those in the control group ( P < 0.05). The mean spinal canal areas and adjacent segment quantitative scores in the two groups after operation were significantly improved compared with those before operation , and they were improved more obviously in the observation group than those in the control group ( P < 0.05). PLIF has a more definite short-term curative effect and a higher interbody fusion rate in the treatment of single-segment lumbar degenerative disease , which is more conducive to promoting the postoperative rehabilitation of patients and slowing down the occurrence of adjacent segment degeneration.