  The main unequivocal conclusion after three decades of phylogeographic mtDNA studies is the African origin of all extant modern humans. In addition , a southern coastal route has been argued for to explain the Eurasian colonization of these African pioneers. Based on the age of macrohaplogroup L3 , from which all maternal Eurasian and the majority of African lineages originated , the out-of-Africa event has been dated around 60-70 kya. On the opposite side , we have proposed a northern route through Central Asia across the Levant for that expansion and , consistent with the fossil record , we have dated it around 125 kya. To help bridge differences between the molecular and fossil record ages , in this article we assess the possibility that mtDNA macrohaplogroup L3 matured in Eurasia and returned to Africa as basal L3 lineages around 70 kya. The coalescence ages of all Eurasian ( M , N) and African ( L3) lineages , both around 71 kya , are not significantly different. The oldest M and N Eurasian clades are found in southeastern Asia instead near of Africa as expected by the southern route hypothesis. The split of the Y-chromosome composite DE haplogroup is very similar to the age of mtDNA L3. An Eurasian origin and back migration to Africa has been proposed for the African Y-chromosome haplogroup E. Inside Africa , frequency distributions of maternal L3 and paternal E lineages are positively correlated. This correlation is not fully explained by geographic or ethnic affinities. This correlation rather seems to be the result of a joint and global replacement of the old autochthonous male and female African lineages by the new Eurasian incomers. These results are congruent with a model proposing an out-of-Africa migration into Asia , following a northern route , of early anatomically modern humans carrying pre-L3 mtDNA lineages around 125 kya , subsequent diversification of pre-L3 into the basal lineages of L3 , a return to Africa of Eurasian fully modern humans around 70 kya carrying the basal L3 lineages and the subsequent diversification of Eurasian-remaining L3 lineages into the M and N lineages in the outside-of-Africa context , and a second Eurasian global expansion by 60 kya , most probably , out of southeast Asia. Climatic conditions and the presence of Neanderthals and other hominins might have played significant roles in these human movements. Moreover , recent studies based on ancient DNA and whole-genome sequencing are also compatible with this hypothesis.