  Studies on monolayer cultures and whole-animal models for the prediction of the response of native human tissue are associated with limitations. Therefore , more and more laboratories are tending towards multicellular spheroids grown in vitro as a model of native tissues. In addition , they are increasingly used in a wide range of biofabrication methodologies. These 3D microspheroids are generated through a self-assembly process that is still poorly characterised , called cellular aggregation. Here , a system is proposed for the automated , non-invasive and high throughput monitoring of the morphological changes during cell aggregation. Microwell patterned inserts were used for spheroid formation while an automated microscope with 4x bright-field objective captured the morphological changes during this process. Subsequently , the acquired time-lapse images were automatically segmented and several morphological features such as minor axis length , major axis length , roundness , area , perimeter and circularity were extracted for each spheroid. The method was quantitatively validated with respect to manual segmentation on four sets of ± 60 spheroids. The average sensitivities and precisions of the proposed segmentation method ranged from 96.67-97.84 % and 96.77-97.73 % , respectively. In addition , the different morphological features were validated , obtaining average relative errors between 0.78-4.50 %. On average , a spheroid was processed 73 times faster than a human operator. As opposed to existing algorithms , our methodology was not only able to automatically monitor compact spheroids but also the aggregation process of individual spheroids , and this in an accurate and high-throughput manner. In total , the aggregation behaviour of more than 700 individual spheroids was monitored over a duration of 16 hours with a time interval of 5 minutes , and this could be increased up to 48,000 for the described culture format. In conclusion , the proposed system has the potential to be used for unravelling the mechanisms involved in spheroid formation and monitoring their formation during large-scale manufacturing protocols.