  While schistosomiasis remains a significant health problem in low to middle income countries , it also represents a recently recognised threat to more economically-developed regions. Until a vaccine is developed , this neglected infectious<disease> disease<disease> is primarily controlled by praziquantel , a drug with a currently unknown mechanism of action. By further elucidating how Schistosoma molecular components cooperate to regulate parasite developmental processes , next generation targets will be identified. Here , we continue our studies on schistosome epigenetic participants and characterise the function of a DNA methylation reader , the Schistosoma mansoni methyl-CpG-binding domain protein ( SmMBD2/3). Firstly , we demonstrate that SmMBD2/3 contains amino acid features essential for 5-methyl cytosine ( 5mC) binding and illustrate that adult schistosome nuclear extracts ( females > males) contain this activity. We subsequently show that SmMBD2/3 translocates into nuclear compartments of transfected murine NIH-3T3 fibroblasts and recombinant SmMBD2/3 exhibits 5mC binding activity. Secondly , using a yeast-two hybrid ( Y2H) screen , we show that SmMBD2/3 interacts with the chromo shadow domain ( CSD) of an epigenetic adaptor , S. mansoni chromobox protein ( SmCBX). Moreover , fluorescent in situ hybridisation ( FISH) mediated co-localisation of Smmbd2/3 and Smcbx to mesenchymal cells as well as somatic- and reproductive- stem cells confirms the Y2H results and demonstrates that these interacting partners are ubiquitously expressed and found within both differentiated as well as proliferating cells. Finally , using RNA interference , we reveal that depletion of Smmbd2/3 or Smcbx in adult females leads to significant reductions ( 46-58 %) in the number of proliferating somatic stem cells ( PSCs or neoblasts) as well as in the quantity of in vitro laid eggs. Collectively , these results further expand upon the schistosome components involved in epigenetic processes and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of SmMBD2/3 and/or SmCBX biology could prove useful in the development of future schistosomiasis control strategies.