  To determine baseline predictors of visual acuity ( VA) outcomes at 5 years after initiating treatment with ranibizumab or bevacizumab for neovascular age-related macular degeneration ( AMD). Secondary analysis of data from a cohort study. Patients enrolled in the Comparison of AMD Treatments Trials ( CATT) who completed a 5-year follow-up visit. Participants were randomly assigned to ranibizumab or bevacizumab and to 1 of 3 dosing regimens. After two years , patients were released from the clinical trial protocol , and were recalled for examination at 5 years. Trained readers evaluated baseline lesion<symptom> features , fluid and thickness. Baseline predictors were determined using univariate and multivariate regression analysis. VA score and change from baseline , ≥ 3-line gain , and VA 20/200 or worse at 5 years. Among 647 patients with VA measured at 5 years , mean VA score in the study eye was 58.9 letters ( ≈ 20/63) , mean decrease from baseline was 3.3 letters , 17.6 % eyes gained ≥ 3 lines , and 19.9 % had VA of 20/200 or worse. In multivariate analysis , worse baseline VA was associated with worse VA , more VA gain , higher percentage with ≥ 3-line gain , and higher percentage with 20/200 or worse at 5 years ( all p < 0.001). Larger baseline CNV lesion<symptom> area was associated with worse VA , greater VA loss , and higher percentage with 20/200 or worse at 5 years ( all p < 0.05). Absence of baseline subretinal fluid was associated with worse VA ( p = 0.03) and more VA loss ( p = 0.03). Female gender , bevacizumab treatment in the first 2 years , and absence of RPE elevation were associated with higher percentage with ≥ 3-line gain. Cigarette smoking was associated with a higher percentage with 20/200 or worse. None of the 21 SNPs evaluated were associated with VA outcomes. Five years after initiating treatment with ranibizumab or bevacizumab in CATT participants , worse baseline VA , larger baseline CNV lesion<symptom> area , and presence of baseline RPE elevation remained independently associated with worse VA at 5 years. In addition , male gender , cigarette smoking , absence of subretinal fluid and treatment with ranibizumab in the first 2 years were independently associated with worse vision outcomes at 5 years.