  Hypertension is a major risk factor for the global burden of disease , particularly in countries that are not economically developed. This study aimed to evaluate risk factors associated with self-reported hypertension among residents of Inner Mongolia using a cross-sectional study and to explore trends in the rate of self-reported hypertension. Multi-stage stratified cluster sampling was used to survey 13,554 participants aged more than 15 years residing in Inner Mongolia for the 2013 Fifth Health Service Survey. Hypertension was self-reported based on a past diagnosis of hypertension and current use of antihypertensive medication. Adjusted odds risks ( ORs) of self-reported hypertension were derived for each independent risk factor including basic socio-demographic and clinical factors using multivariable logistic regression. An optimized risk score model was used to assess the risk and determine the predictive power of risk factors on self-reported hypertension among Inner Mongolia residents. During study period , self-reported hypertension prevalence was 19.0 % ( 2571/13 ,554). In multivariable analyses , both female and minority groups were estimated to be associated with increased risk of self-reported hypertension , adjusted ORs ( 95 % CI) were 1.22 ( 1.08 , 1.37) and 1.66 ( 1.29 , 2.13) for other minority compared with Han , increased risk of self-reported hypertension prevalence was associated with age , marital status , drinking , BMI , and comorbidity. In the analyses calculated risk score by regression coefficients , old age ( ≥ 71) had a score of 12 , which was highest among all examined factors. The predicted probability of self-reported hypertension was positively associated with risk score. Of 13,421 participants with complete data , 284 had a risk score greater than 20 , which corresponded to a high estimated probability of self-reported hypertension ( ≥ 67 %). Self-reported hypertension was largely related to multiple clinical and socio-demographic factors. An optimized risk score model can effectively predict self-reported hypertension. Understanding these factors and assessing the risk score model can help to identify the high-risk groups , especially in areas with multi-ethnic populations.