  Prostate cancer ( PC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among men. Long noncoding RNA metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 ( Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay was used to detect the expressions of MALAT1 and microRNA-1 ( miR-1). Protein levels of cleaved poly ( ADP-ribose) polymerase , cleaved caspase-3 , BAX , bcl-2 , and KRAS were determined using a western blot assay. Cell proliferation was assessed by colony formation and MTS assays. Cell migration capacity was examined by transwell migration assay ( Corning Incorporated , Corning , NY , USA). Apoptosis rate was measured by flow cytometry via double staining of annexin V-FITC and propidium iodide. Luciferase and RNA immunoprecipitation assays were employed to explore the relationship among miR-1 , MALAT1 , and KRAS. MALAT1 expression was upregulated and miR-1 expression was downregulated in PC tissues and cell lines. MALAT1 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation and migration , and promoted cell apoptosis in androgen receptor-negative DU145 and PC3 cells. Molecular mechanism explorations disclosed that MALAT1 acted as a molecular sponge of miR-1 in DU145 cells. Moreover , miR-1 downregulation partly abrogated MALAT1 silencing-mediated anti-proliferative , antimigratory , and proapoptotic effects in DU145 and PC3 cells. Further investigation revealed that KRAS was a target of miR-1 in DU145 cells. MALAT1 acted as a competing endogenous RNA of miR-1 , resulting in the increase of KRAS expression in DU145 and PC3 cells. Furthermore , miR-1 overexpression hampered proliferation and migration and promoted apoptosis in DU145 and PC3 cells , while these effects were markedly weakened following KRAS upregulation. MALAT1 knockdown inhibited proliferation and migration and facilitated apoptosis by upregulating miR-1 and downregulating KRAS in androgen receptor-negative PCa cells , providing a new insight into the molecular basis of MALAT1 and a potential biomarker or therapeutic target for suppressing castration-resistant PC.