  The rate of uninsured people has decreased dramatically since the Affordable Care Act was passed. To make an informed decision , consumers need assistance to understand the advantages and disadvantages of health insurance plans. The Show Me Health Plans Web-based decision support tool was developed to improve the quality of health insurance selection. In response to the promising effectiveness of Show Me Health Plans in a randomized controlled trial ( RCT) and the growing need for Web-based health insurance decision support , the study team used expert recommendations for dissemination and implementation , engaged external stakeholders , and made the Show Me Health Plans tool available to the public. The purpose of this study was to implement the public dissemination of the Show Me Health Plans tool in the state of Missouri and to evaluate its impact compared to the RCT. This study used a cross-sectional observational design. Dissemination phase users were compared with users in the RCT study across the same outcome measures. Time spent using the Show Me Health Plans tool , knowledge , importance rating of 9 health insurance features , and intended plan choice match with algorithm predictions were examined. During the dissemination phase ( November 2016 to January 2017) , 10,180 individuals visited the SMHP website , and the 1069 users who stayed on the tool for more than one second were included in our analyses. Dissemination phase users were more likely to live outside St.<disease> Louis City or County ( P < .001) , were less likely to be below the federal poverty level ( P < .001) , and had a higher income ( P = .03). Overall , Show Me Health Plans users from St.<disease> Louis City or County spent more time on the Show Me Health Plans tool than those from other Missouri counties ( P = .04); this association was not observed in the RCT. Total time spent on the tool was not correlated with knowledge scores , which were associated with lower poverty levels ( P = .009). The users from the RCT phase were more likely to select an insurance plan that matched the tool 's recommendations ( P < .001) compared with the dissemination phase users. The study suggests that a higher income population may be more likely to seek information and online help when making a health insurance plan decision. We found that Show Me Health Plans users in the dissemination phase were more selective in the information they reviewed. This study illustrates one way of disseminating and implementing an empirically tested Web-based decision aid tool. Distributing Web-based tools is feasible and may attract a large number of potential users , educate them on basic health insurance information , and make recommendations based on personal information and preference. However , using Web-based tools may differ according to the demographics of the general public compared to research study participants.