  Refrigerated storage is widely applied in order to maintain peach quality but it can also induce chilling injuries ( CIs) such as flesh browning and bleeding , and mealiness. Peach fruit from three cultivars ( ` Red Haven ' , RH , ` Regina di Londa ' , RL , and ` Flaminia ' , FL) were stored for 4 weeks under low temperatures ( 0.5 and 5.5 째C). GC-MS was employed to study changes in both metabolome and volatilome induced by cold storage in the mesocarp. CIs were assessed both at the end of each week of storage and after subsequent shelf-life ( SL) at 20 째C. Flesh browning and mealiness appeared to be more related to 5.5 째C storage , while flesh bleeding revealed high incidence following 0.5 째C storage. Compared to RL and FL , RH showed a marked lower incidence of CIs. Multivariate statistical analyses indicate that RH peaches indeed differ from RL and FL in particular when considering data from samples collected at the end of the cold storage. Common and divergent responses have been identified in terms of metabolic responses to the applied low temperatures. In all three cultivars raffinose , glucose-6P , fucose , xylose , sorbitol , GABA , epicatechin , catechin , and putrescine markedly increased during cold storage , while citramalic , glucuronic , mucic and shikimic acids decreased. Among volatile organic compounds ( VOCs) , aldehydes and alcohols generally accumulated more under low temperature conditions while esters and lactones evolved during subsequent SL. The main cultivar differences developed after cold storage during SL although some common responses ( e.g. , an increased production of ethyl acetate) were observed. The lower levels of flesh browning and bleeding displayed by RH peaches were related to compounds with antioxidant activity , or acting as osmotic protectants and membrane stabilizer. Indeed , RH showed higher levels of amino acids and urea , together with a marked increase in putrescine , sorbitol , maltitol , myoinositol and sucrose detected during storage and SL.