  The purpose of the study was to explore the effect and the underlying mechanism of YangXue QingNao Wan ( YXQNW) and Silibinin Capsules ( SC) , the two Chinese medicines , on cognitive impairment in older people with familial hyperlipidaemia. Fourteen month-old female LDLR ( +/-) golden Syrian hamsters were used with their wild type as control. YXQNW ( 0.5 g/kg/day) , SC ( 0.1 g/kg/day) , or YXQNW ( 0.5 g/kg/day) + SC ( 0.1 g/kg/day) were administrated orally for 30 days. To assess the effects of the two drugs on plasma lipid content and cognitive ability , plasma TC , TG , LDL-C , and HDL-C were measured , and Y maze task was carried out both before and after administration. After administering of the drugs for 30 days , to evaluate the effect of the two drugs on disturbed blood flow caused by hyperlipidemia , the cerebral blood flow ( CBF) was measured. To assess blood-brain barrier integrity , albumin leakage in middle cerebral artery ( MCA) area was determined. To evaluate the effect of the drugs on impaired microvessels , the number and morphology of microvessels were assessed in hippocampus area. To further evaluate the ultrastructure of microvessels in hippocampus , transmission electron microscopy ( TEM) and scanning electron microscopy ( SEM) were carried out. To assess the profiles of claudin-5 and occludin in hippocampus , we performed immunofluorescence. Finally , to assess the expression of claudin-5 , JAM-1 , occludin and ZO-1 in hippocampus , western blot was carried out. The results showed that YXQNW , SC , and YXQNW + SC improved cognitive impairment of aged LDLR ( +/-) golden Syrian hamsters without lowering plasma TC and LDL-C. YXQNW , SC , and YXQNW + SC attenuated albumin leakage in MCA area and neuronal damage in hippocampus , concomitant with an increase in CBF , a decrease of perivascular edema<symptom> and an up-regulated expression of claudin-5 , occludin and ZO-1. In conclusion , YXQNW , SC , and YXQNW + SC are able to improve cognitive ability in aged LDLR ( +/-) golden Syrian hamsters via mechanisms involving maintaining blood-brain barrier integrity. These findings provide evidence suggesting YXQNW or SC as a potential regime to counteract the cognitive impairment caused by familial hypercholesterolemia.