  Posterior hamstring harvest has been described in the adult population in a limited fashion , but no study is available describing the use of posterior hamstring harvest in an active pediatric and adolescent cohort. At times , surgeons may be faced with a challenging anterior harvest due to patient anatomic characteristics , particularly the anatomic features and size of the pes tendons. Clinicians need to have multiple harvest approaches at their disposal. Complications with hamstring harvest such as premature graft transection are more problematic in this population due to higher failure rates with allograft tissue. The posterior harvest via its more proximal location may allow for easier tendon identification , visualization of the accessory attachments , and longer preserved tendon length if transection error occurs when the anterior approach is avoided based on surgical technique , patient anatomic characteristics , and surgeon and patient preference. To describe the technique of a posterior hamstring harvest in pediatric and adolescent patients and to analyze complications. Case series; Level of evidence , 4. This study was a retrospective review of a consecutive series of pediatric and adolescent patients who underwent posterior hamstring harvest. During surgery , the patient 's leg was abducted and externally rotated to expose the posteromedial aspect of the knee. A 2-cm incision was made overlying the palpable medial hamstring at the popliteal crease. The posterior hamstring tendons were first harvested proximally with an open tendon stripper and distally with a closed stripper. Preoperative , intraoperative , and postoperative findings and complications were analyzed. A total of 214 patients ( mean ± SD age , 15.7 ± 4.1 years; range , 8.0-19.8 years) underwent posterior harvest , with a mean ± SD follow-up of 1.83 ± 1.05 years. No complications occurred in our series related to graft harvest-no graft transections , neurovascular injuries , secondary procedures for wound<disease> healing or closure , cosmetic concerns , or limitations in return to activity due to the posterior incision. The posterior hamstring harvest is a safe and reliable technique to harvest autograft tendon in pediatric and adolescent anterior cruciate ligament reconstructions. The posterior technique entailed no complications related to harvest. No patients expressed any cosmetic concerns about their incision or had limitations in return to sport due to the posterior harvest.