  Extralevator abdominoperineal excision ( ELAPE) results in a large perineal defect which needs reconstruction by a flap or biological mesh. The incidence of perineal wound<disease> complications is thought to be higher following an ELAPE compared to conventional abdominoperineal excision ( APE). WE aimed to analyze the perineal wound<disease> complications following ELAPE in our institution. This was a retrospective analysis of all consecutive patients who underwent an APE ( conventional and ELAPE) procedure in our institution between 2012 and 2015. We retrieved the demographic data , treatment data , and pathological data from the case records. Reconstruction of the perineal defect after a prone perineal dissection was performed using a local muscle flap. The incidence of perinealwound complications , hospital stay , and time to initiate adjuvant chemotherapy was compared between the two groups. A total of 71 patients underwent APE over a period of 41 months of which 21 patients underwent ELAPE. The perineal dissection during ELAPE was done in the prone position in 18 patients and in the supine position in 3 patients. Perineal wound<disease> complications were seen in 9 patients ( 42 %) who underwent ELAPE compared to 17 patients ( 34 %) who underwent conventional APE ( p = 0.52). The mean duration of hospital stay was significantly longer in patients who underwent ELAPE when compared to those who underwent conventional APE ( 22.9 ± 3.6 days vs 14.6 ± 1.0 days , p = 0.03). The median interval between ELAPE and initiation of adjuvant chemo was 54 days ( range 32-120 days) compared to 50 days ( range 30-100 days) in patients undergoing conventional APE. A delay in initiating adjuvant chemotherapy of more than 12 weeks was seen in 4 patients ( 19 %) following ELAPE. The incidence of perineal wound<disease> complications following ELAPE in this study was comparable to that reported in literature. Although the hospital stay following ELAPE was significantly longer than that following conventional APE in our institution , it did not unduly prolong initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy. Improving the perineal reconstruction techniques and selecting patients who will benefit from ELAPE may help to reduce the wound<disease> complications.