  Recent evidence in cancer research , developed the notion that malignant tumors consist of different subpopulations of cells , one of them , known as cancer stem cells , being attributed many important properties such as enhanced tumorigenicity , proliferation potential and profound multidrug resistance to chemotherapy. Several key stem cells markers were identified in colon cancer. In our study we focused on the aldehyde dehydrogenase type 1 ( ALDH1) expression in colon cancer-derived cell lines HT-29/ eGFP , HCT-116/ eGFP and LS-180/ eGFP , and its role in the chemoresistance and tumorigenic potential. The effect of pharmacological inhibition of ALDH activity by diethylaminobenzaldehyde ( DEAB) and also effect of molecular inhibition by specific siRNA was evaluated in vitro in cultures of human colorectal cell lines. The expression level of different isoenzymes of aldehyde dehydrogenase was determined using qPCR. Changes in cell biology were evaluated by expression analysis , western blot and apoptosis assay. The efficiency of cytotoxic treatment in the presence of different chemotherapeutic drugs was analyzed by fluorimetric assay. Tumorigenicity of cells with specific ALDH1A1 siRNA was tested in xenograft model in vivo. Treatment by DEAB partially sensitized the tested cell lines to chemotherapeutics. Subsequently the molecular inhibition of specific isoforms of ALDH by ALDH1A1 or ALDH1A3 siRNA led to sensitizing of cell lines HT-29/ eGFP , HCT-116/ eGFP to capecitabine and 5-FU. On the model of athymic mice we observed the effect of molecular inhibition of ALDH1A1 in HT-29/ eGFP cells by siRNA. We observed inhibition of proliferation of subcutaneous xenografts in comparison to control cells. This research , verifies the significance of the ALDH1A isoforms in multidrug resistance of human colorectal cancer cells and its potential as a cancer stem cell marker. This provides the basis for the development of new approaches regarding the treatment of patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma and potentially the treatment of other tumor malignancies.