  Adolescent pregnancies present a great public health burden in Kenya and Sub-Saharan Africa ( UNFPA , Motherhood in Childhood: Facing the challenge of Adolescent Pregnancy , 2013). The disenfranchisement from public institutions and services is further compounded by cultural stigma and gender inequality creating emotional , psychosocial , health , and educational problems in the lives of vulnerable pregnant adolescents ( Int J Adolesc Med Health 15 ( 4): 321-9 , 2003; BMC Public Health 8:83 , 2008). In this paper we have applied an engagement interview framework to examine interpersonal , practical , and cultural challenges faced by pregnant adolescents. Using a qualitative study design , 12 pregnant adolescents ( ages 15-19) visiting a health facility 's antenatal services in Nairobi were interviewed. All recruited adolescents were pregnant for the first time and screened positive on the nine-item Patient Health Questionnaire ( PHQ-9) with 16 % of 176 participants interviewed in a descriptive survey in the same Kangemi primary health facility found to be severely depressed ( Osok et al. , Depression<symptom> and its psychosocial risk factors in pregnant Kenyan adolescents: a cross-sectional study in a community health Centre of Nairobi , BMC Psychiatry , 2018 18:136 https://doi.org/10.1186/s12888-018-1706-y). An engagement interview approach ( Social Work 52 ( 4): 295-308 , 2007) was applied to elicit various practical , psychological , interpersonal , and cultural barriers to life adjustment , service access , obtaining resources , and psychosocial support related to pregnancy. Grounded theory method was applied for qualitative data sifting and analysis ( Strauss and Corbin , Basics of qualitative research , 1990). Findings revealed that pregnant adolescents face four major areas of challenges , including depression<symptom> , anxiety<symptom> and stress around the pregnancy , denial of the pregnancy , lack of basic needs provisions and care , and restricted educational or livelihood opportunities for personal development post pregnancy. These challenges were related both to existing social and cultural values/norms on gender and traditional family structure , as well as to service structural barriers ( including prenatal care , mental health care , newborn care , parenting support services). More importantly , dealing with these challenges has led to negative mental health consequences in adolescent pregnant girls , including feeling insecure about the future , feeling very defeated and sad to be pregnant , and feeling unsupported and disempowered in providing care for the baby. Findings have implications for service planning , including developing more integrated mental health services for pregnant adolescents. Additionally , we felt a need for developing reproductive education and information dissemination strategies to improve community members ' knowledge of pregnant adolescent mental health issues.