  The present study aimed to evaluate the impact of dendrobium mixture ( DMix) on the gene and protein expression of insulin signaling pathway-associated factors in the livers of diabetic rats. The molecular mechanisms by which DMix inhibits gluconeogenesis were also investigated. A total of 47 female Wistar rats were used in the present study. Of these , 11 rats were randomly selected as healthy controls and diabetes was induced in the remaining 36 rats by administering a high-fat and high-sugar diet for 6 weeks , followed by two intraperitoneal injections of streptozotocin. The 36 rats were screened for diabetes and then randomly divided into three groups: Model , metformin and DMix groups. Following 12 weeks of treatment , the fasting blood glucose ( FBG) , glycosylated serum protein ( GSP) , serum insulin , blood lipids ( total cholesterol ( Tch) and triglycerides ( TG)) , alanine transaminase ( ALT) and aspartate transaminase ( AST) were assessed. In addition , hematoxylin and eosin staining was used for histomorphological examination of the liver tissues. The mRNA expression of insulin receptor ( InsR) , forkhead box protein O1 ( FoxO1) , phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase ( PEPCK) and glucose 6-phosphatase ( G6Pase) in the liver was measured with reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and the protein expression of InsR , phosphoinositide-3-kinase ( PI3K) , phosphorylated ( p)- PI3K , protein kinase B ( Akt) , p-Akt , FoxO1 , PEPCK and G6Pase in the liver was measured by western blot analysis. The FBG , GSP , InsR , Tch , TG , ALT and AST levels were significantly lower in the DMix-treated group compared with the model group ( P < 0.05). In addition , DMix treatment notably improved liver histopathology and significantly increased the gene and protein expression of InsR , PI3K and Akt ( P < 0.05). DMix treatment also significantly reduced the gene and protein expression of FoxO1 , PEPCK and G6Pase ( P < 0.05). DMix effectively reduced FBG and blood lipids and significantly improved liver function and insulin resistance in diabetic rats , possibly by regulating the gene and protein expression of molecules associated with the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.