  In response to rising rates of medical intervention in birth , there has been increased international interest in promoting normal birth ( without induction of labour , epidural/spinal/general anaesthesia , episiotomy , forceps/vacuum , or caesarean section). However , there is limited evidence for how best to achieve increased rates of normal birth. In this study we examined the role of modifiable and non-modifiable factors in experiencing a normal birth using retrospective , self-reported data. Women who gave birth over a four-month period in Queensland , Australia , were invited to complete a questionnaire about their preferences for and experiences of pregnancy , labour , birth , and postnatal care. Responses ( N = 5840) were analysed using multiple logistic regression models to identify associations with four aspects of normal birth: onset of labour , use of anaesthesia , mode of birth , and use of episiotomy. The probability of normal birth was then estimated by combining these models. Overall , 28.7 % of women experienced a normal birth. Probability of a normal birth was reduced for women who were primiparous , had a history of caesarean , had a multiple pregnancy , were older , had a more advanced gestational age , experienced pregnancy-related health conditions ( gestational diabetes , low-lying placenta , high blood<symptom> pressure<symptom>) , had continuous electronic fetal monitoring during labour , and knew only some of their care providers for labour and birth. Women had a higher probability of normal birth if they lived outside major metropolitan areas , did not receive private obstetric care , had freedom of movement throughout labour , received continuity of care in labour and birth , did not have an augmented labour , or gave birth in a non-supine position. Our findings highlight several relevant modifiable factors including mobility , monitoring , and care provision during labour and birth , for increasing normal birth opportunity. An important step forward in promoting normal birth is increasing awareness of such relationships through patient involvement in informed decision-making and implementation of this evidence in care guidelines.