  Early-life adversity increases the risk for emotional disorders such as depression<symptom> and schizophrenia. Anhedonia , thought to be a core feature of these disorders , is provoked by our naturalistic rodent model of childhood adversity ( i.e. , rearing pups for one week in cages with limited bedding and nesting , LBN). Drug use and addiction are highly comorbid with psychiatric disorders featuring anhedonia , yet effects of LBN on drug-seeking behavior and the reward and stress-related circuits that underlie it remain unknown. Here we examined the effects of LBN on cocaine intake and seeking , using a battery of behavioral tests measuring distinct aspects of cocaine reward , and for comparison , chocolate intake. We also examined activation of neurons within the pleasure/reward and stress circuits following cocaine in LBN and control rats. Early-life adversity reduced spontaneous intake of palatable chocolate , extending prior reports of sucrose and social-play anhedonia. In a within-session cocaine behavioral economic test , LBN rats self-administered lower dosages of cocaine under low-effort conditions , consistent with a reduced hedonic set-point for cocaine , and potentially anhedonia. In contrast , cocaine demand elasticity was not consistently affected , indicating no major changes in motivation to maintain preferred cocaine blood levels. These changes were selective , as LBN did not cause an overt anxiety-like phenotype , nor did it affect sensitivity to self-administered cocaine dose , responding for cocaine under extinction conditions , cocaine- or cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking , or locomotor response to acute cocaine. However , high Fos expression was seen after cocaine in both reward- and stress-related brain regions of LBN rats , including nucleus accumbens core , central amygdala , and lateral habenula. In contrast , hypothalamic orexin neuron activation after cocaine was significantly attenuated in LBN rats. Together , these findings demonstrate enduring effects of early-life adversity on both reward- and fear/anxiety-related neural circuits , as well as anhedonia-like reductions in consumption of natural and drug rewards.