  Self-focused attention refers to awareness of self-referent , internally generated information. It can be categorized into dysfunctional ( i.e. , self-rumination) and functional ( self-reflection) aspects. According to theory on cognitive resource limitations ( e.g. , Moreno , 2006) , there is a difference in cognitive resource allocation between these two aspects of self-focused attention. We propose a new task , self-relevant word ( SRW) enumeration , that can aid in behaviorally identifying individuals ' use of self-rumination and self-reflection. The present study has two purposes: to determine the association between self-focus and SRW enumeration , and to examine the effect of dysfunctional SRW enumeration on repetitive negative thinking. One hundred forty-six undergraduate students participated in this study. They completed a measure of state anxiety<symptom> twice , before and after imagining a social failure situation. They also completed the SRW enumeration task , Repetitive Thinking Questionnaire , Short Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale , and Rumination-Reflection Questionnaire. A correlational analysis indicated a significant positive correlation between self-reflection and the number of SRWs. Furthermore , individuals high in self-reflection had a tendency to pay more attention to problems than did those high in self-rumination. A significant positive correlation was found between self-rumination and the strength of self-relevance of negative SRWs. Through a path analysis , we found a significant positive effect of the self-relevance of negative SRWs on repetitive negative thinking. Notably , however , the model that excluded self-rumination as an explanatory variable showed a better fit to the data than did the model that included it. In summary , SRW enumeration might enable selective and independent detection of the degree of self-reflection and self-rumination , and therefore should be examined in future research in order to design new behavioral procedures.