  Social influences are a primary factor in the adoption of health behaviors. Social media platforms , such as Facebook , disseminate information , raise awareness , and provide motivation and support for positive health behaviors. Facebook has evolved rapidly and is now a part of many individuals ' daily routine. The high degree of individual engagement and low attrition rate of this platform necessitate consideration for a potentially positive impact on health behavior. The aim of this paper is to investigate the use of Facebook by adults. Knowledge is limited to the unique characteristics of Facebook users , including time spent on Facebook by adults of various age groups. Characteristics of Facebook users are important to understand to direct efforts to engage adults in future health behavior interventions. Institutional Review Board approval was obtained for this secondary analysis of existing de-identified survey data collected for the Pew Research Center. The sample included adults age 18-65 years and above. Binomial logistic regression was performed for the model of age group and Facebook use , controlling for other demographics. A multinomial logistic regression model was used for the variable of time spent on Facebook. Based on the regression models , we computed and reported the marginal effects on Facebook use and time spent of adults age groups , including age groups 18-29 , 30-49 , 50-64 , and 65 and over. We discuss these findings in the context of the implications for promoting positive health behaviors. The demographics of the final sample ( N = 730) included adults age 18-65 years and above ( mean 48.2 yrs , SD 18.3 yrs). The majority of the participants were female ( 372/730 , 50.9 %) , white ( 591/730 , 80.9 %) and non-Hispanic ( 671/730 , 91.9 %). Bivariate analysis indicated that Facebook users and nonusers differed significantly by age group ( χ The key findings of this study were Facebook use among midlife and older adults was more likely to stay the same over time , compared to the other age groups. Interestingly , the young adult age group 18-29 years was more likely to decrease their time on Facebook over time. Specifically , younger females were most likely to decrease time spent on Facebook. In general , male participants were most likely to spend the same amount of time on Facebook. These findings have implications for future health intervention research , and ultimately , for translation to the clinic setting to improve health outcomes.