  Elderly patients constitute an increasingly large proportion of the high-risk surgical group. In adult patients , several specific intraoperative approaches such as cardiac output-guided haemodynamic therapy , depth of anaesthesia monitoring ( DAM) or lung-protective ventilation ( LPV) are designed to reduce postoperative mortality and surgical complications. However , none of these approaches has been specifically performed in the elderly , and no evaluation of a multimodal optimisation strategy for general anaesthesia has been achieved in this population. The objective of this study is to assess , in high-risk patients aged 75 years and over undergoing high-risk surgery , the effectiveness of combined optimisation of anaesthesia involving goal-directed haemodynamic therapy ( GDHT) , LPV and electroencephalographic DAM on postoperative morbidity and mortality. The primary outcome of the study is a composite criterion associating major postoperative complications and mortality occurring within the 30 first postoperative days. The secondary outcomes are 1-year postoperative autonomy and mortality. This prospective , randomised , controlled , multicentre trial using a stepped wedge cluster design will be conducted in 27 French university centres. Patients aged 75 years and over , undergoing femoral head fractures and major intraperitoneal or vascular elective surgeries will be included after informed consent. They will benefit from usual care in the ` control group ' and from a combined optimisation of general anaesthesia involving GDHT , LPV and DAM in the ` optimisation group '. The cluster 's crossover will be unidirectional , from control to optimisation , and randomised. Data will be recorded at inclusion , the day of surgery , 7 days , 30 days and 1 year postoperatively and collected into a hosted electronic case report form. The primary outcome of the study is a composite criterion associating major postoperative complications and mortality occurring within the 30 first postoperative days. The secondary outcomes are 1- year postoperative autonomy and mortality. This protocol was approved by the ethics committee Sud-Est 1 and the French regulatory agency. The finding of the trial will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journals and conferences TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02668250; Pre-results.