  Preventable maternal and infant mortality continues to be significantly higher in Latin American indigenous regions compared to non-indigenous , with inequalities of race , gender and poverty exacerbated by deficiencies in service provision. Standard programmes aimed at improving perinatal health have had a limited impact on mortality rates in these populations , and state and national statistical data and evaluations of services are of little relevance to the environments that most indigenous ethnicities inhabit. This study sought a novel perspective on causes and solutions by considering how structural , cultural and relational factors intersect to make indigenous women and babies more vulnerable to morbidity and mortality. We explored how structural inequalities and interpersonal relationships impact decision-making about care seeking during pregnancy and childbirth in Wixarika communities in Northwestern Mexico. Sixty-two women were interviewed while pregnant and followed-up after the birth of their child. Observational data was collected over 18 months , producing more than five hundred pages of field notes. Of the 62 women interviewed , 33 gave birth at home without skilled attendance , including 5 who delivered completely alone. Five babies died during labour or shortly thereafter , we present here 3 of these events as case studies. We identified that the structure of service provision , in which providers have several contiguous days off , combined with a poor patient-provider dynamic and the sometimes non-consensual imposition of biomedical practices acted as deterrents to institutional delivery. Data also suggested that men have important roles to play supporting their partners during labour and birth. Stillbirths<symptom> and neonatal deaths occurring in a context of unnecessary lone and unassisted deliveries are structurally generated forms of violence: preventable morbidities or mortalities that are the result of systematic inequalities and health system weaknesses<symptom>. These results counter the common assumption that the choices of indigenous women to avoid institutional delivery are irrational , cultural or due to a lack of education. Rather , our data indicate that institutional arrangements and interpersonal interactions in the health system contribute to preventable deaths. Addressing these issues requires important , but achievable , changes in service provision and resource allocation in addition to long term , culturally-appropriate strategies.