  Derotational osteotomy of the distal femur allows the anatomic treatment of patellofemoral maltracking due to increased femoral antetorsion. However , such rotational osteotomy procedures have a high potential of intended/unintended changes of frontal alignment. The purpose of this study was to perform derotational osteotomy of the distal femur and to demonstrate the utility of a novel trigonometric approach to address 3-dimensional ( 3D) changes on 2-dimensional imaging ( axial computed tomography ( CT) and frontal-plane radiography). The hypothesis was that 1-step single-cut osteotomy can simultaneously correct torsion and frontal alignment based on preoperatively calculated cutting angles. Controlled laboratory study. Eight human cadaveric whole legs ( 4 lower limb torsos) underwent derotational osteotomy of the distal femur of 20 °. A straight leg axis , determined as a mechanical femorotibial angle ( mFTA) of 0 ° , was chosen as a goal for postoperative frontal alignment. The inclination of the cutting angle from the lateral view was calculated individually for each cadaveric leg and was represented by a simple 3D-printed cutting guide for surgery. Specimens underwent CT for the measurement of torsion , while the frontal leg axis was determined on an upright radiograph preoperatively and postoperatively. Preoperative and postoperative angles were compared with the mathematical prediction model. The preoperative mFTA ranged from -3.9 ° ( valgus) to +3.4 ° ( varus) ( mean , -0.2 ° ± 2.6 °). A postoperative mean mFTA of 0.37 ° ± 0.69 ° ( 95 % CI , -0.22 ° to 0.95 °) was achieved ( Single-cut distal femoral osteotomy can be performed to simultaneously address rotational as well as frontal alignment using a preoperatively defined oblique cut , as determined by the presented reproducible calculation model. This study adds important knowledge to the technique of derotational osteotomy. This approach provides an individual , oblique single cut for the correction of torsion and frontal axis within a clinically insignificant margin. Simplified tables for calculation and a surgical reference make this model reproducible and safe.