  To determine the feasibility of radiomic analysis for predicting the therapeutic response of gastric carcinoma ( GC) with abdominal cavity metastasis ( GCACM) to pulsed low dose rate radiotherapy ( PLDRT) using contrast-enhanced computed tomography ( CECT) images. Pretreatment CECT images of 43 GCACM patients were analyzed. Patients with complete response ( CR) and partial response ( PR) were considered responders , while stable disease ( SD) and progressive disease ( PD) as non-responders. A total of 1,117 image features were quantified from tumor region that segmented from arterial phase CT images. Intra-class correlation coefficient ( ICC) and absolute correlation coefficient ( ACC) were calculated for selecting influential feature subset. The capability of each influential feature on treatment response classification was assessed using Kruskal-Wallis test and receiver operating characteristic ( ROC) analysis. Moreover , artificial neural network ( ANN) and k-nearest neighbor ( KNN) predictive models were constructed based on the training set ( 18 responders , 14 non-responders) and the testing set ( 6 responders , 5 non-responders) validated the reliability of the models. Comparison between the performances of the models was performed by using McNemar 's test. The analyses showed that 6 features ( 1 first order-based , 1 texture-based , 1 LoG-based , and 3 wavelet-based) were significantly different between responders and non-responders ( AUCs range from 0.686 to 0.728). Both two prediction models based on features extracted from CECT showed potential in predicting the treatment response with higher accuracies ( ANN: 0.714 , KNN: 0.749 for the training set; ANN: 0.816 , KNN: 0.816 for the testing set). No statistical difference was observed between the performance of ANN and KNN ( P = 0.999). Pretreatment radiomic analysis using CECT can potentially provide important information regarding the therapeutic response to PLDRT for GCACM , improving risk stratification.