  This study was carried out to discover the underlying role that HOXA11 plays in lung squamous cancer ( LUSC) and uncover the potential corresponding molecular mechanisms and functions of HOXA11-related genes. Twenty-three clinical paired LUSC and non-LUSC samples were utilized to examine the level of HOXA11 using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR). The clinical significance of HOXA11 was systematically analyzed based on 475 LUSC and 18 non-cancerous adjacent tissues from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA) database. A total of 102 LUSC tissues and 121 non-cancerous tissues were available from Oncomine to explore the expressing profiles of HOXA11 in LUSC. A meta-analysis was carried out to further assess the differential expression of HOXA11 in LUSC , including in-house qRT-PCR data , expressing data extracted from TCGA and Oncomine databases. Moreover , the enrichment analysis and potential pathway annotations of HOXA11 in LUSC were accomplished via Gene Oncology ( GO) and Kyoto<pathogen> Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG). The expression of hub genes and according correlations with HOXA11 were assessed to further explore the biological role of HOXA11 in LUSC. HOXA11 expression in LUSC had a tendency to be upregulated in comparison to adjacent non-cancerous tissues by qRT-PCR. TCGA data displayed that HOXA11 was remarkably over-expressed in LUSC compared with that in non-LUSC samples , and the area under curves ( AUC) was 0.955 ( P < 0.001). A total of 1523 co-expressed genes were sifted for further analysis. The most significant term enriched in the KEGG pathway was focal adhesion. Among the six hub genes of HOXA11 , including PARVA , ILK , COL4A1 , COL4A2 , ITGB1 , and ITGA5 , five ( with the exception of COL4A1) were significantly decreased compared with the normal lung tissues. Moreover , the expression of ILK was negatively related to HOXA11 ( r =- 0.141 , P = 0.002). High HOXA11 expression may lead to carcinogenesis and the development of LUSC. Furthermore , co-expressed genes might affect the prognosis of LUSC.