  Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation ( TENS) involves a neuromodulatory effect using electrical stimulation and has been widely used due to its safety and convenience. It has been used for treating tinnitus<symptom> for decades. Acupuncture has also been used for tinnitus<symptom> and several research studies have shown that acupuncture can improve a certain kind of tinnitus<symptom> by stimulating the somatosensory system. Moreover , several studies have shown the efficacy of electroacupuncture , which is a combination of acupuncture and electrical stimulation , for tinnitus<symptom>. However , the comparative effectiveness of TENS , manual acupuncture , and electroacupuncture for the treatment of tinnitus<symptom> has not been determined previously. Herein , we design a randomized , non-blind clinical trial to investigate and compare the effects and safety of TENS , manual acupuncture , and electroacupuncture for tinnitus<symptom>. After screening , 45 patients are randomly assigned to three groups: ( 1) patients in the TENS group are treated at four sites ( tender points of masseter and the sternocleidomastoid muscle , in front of tragus , and mastoid process); ( 2) the manual acupuncture group patients are treated at 11 acupoints ( TE21 , SI19 , GB2 , TE22 , ST7 , TE17 , GB20 of tinnitus<symptom> affected side , and GB20 , TE05 , KI3 of both sides); ( 3) electroacupuncture group patients are treated by using acupuncture as in the manual acupuncture group and electrical stimulation at TE21 , SI19 , TE17 , and GB20. Patients are treated for ten sessions , twice a week. The primary outcome measurement is the change of Tinnitus<symptom> Handicap Inventory ( THI) score between visit 1 and visit 10. The secondary outcome measurements are the response rate of THI , change in visual analogue scale associated with the loudness and annoyance of tinnitus<symptom> , pure-tone audiometry and speech discrimination , and changes in parameters of heart rate variability. The purpose of this study is to compare the effect of TENS , manual acupuncture , and electroacupuncture in the auricular area on tinnitus<symptom>. If the specific treatment shows a significant effect compared to other treatments , it could have potential for use in clinical practice as a primary treatment. Clinical Research Information Service ( CRIS) , KCT0002117. Registered October 21 , 2016. Retrospectively registered.