  Inflammation<symptom> after traumatic spinal cord injury ( SCI) is non-resolving and thus still present in chronic injury stages. It plays a key role in the pathophysiology of SCI and has been associated with further neurodegeneration and development of neuropathic pain. Neural precursor cells ( NPCs) have been shown to reduce the acute and sub-acute inflammatory response after SCI. In the present study , we examined effects of NPC transplantation on the immune environment in chronic stages of SCI. SCI was induced in rats by clip-compression of the cervical spinal cord at the level C6-C7. NPCs were transplanted 10 days post-injury. The functional outcome was assessed weekly for 8 weeks using the Basso , Beattie , and Bresnahan scale , the CatWalk system , and the grid walk test. Afterwards , the rats were sacrificed , and spinal cord sections were examined for M1/M2 macrophages , T lymphocytes , astrogliosis , and apoptosis using immunofluorescence staining. Rats treated with NPCs had compared to the control group significantly fewer pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages and reduced immunodensity for inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS) , their marker enzyme. Anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages were rarely present 8 weeks after the SCI. In this model , the sub-acute transplantation of NPCs did not support survival and proliferation of M2 macrophages. Post-traumatic apoptosis , however , was significantly reduced in the NPC group , which might be explained by the altered microenvironment following NPC transplantation. Corresponding to these findings , reactive astrogliosis was significantly reduced in NPC-transplanted animals. Furthermore , we could observe a trend toward smaller cavity sizes and functional improvement following NPC transplantation. Our data suggest that transplantation of NPCs following SCI might attenuate inflammation<symptom> even in chronic injury stages. This might prevent further neurodegeneration and could also set a stage for improved neuroregeneration after SCI.