  To evaluate the effects of granting legal full practice authority ( FPA) to nurse practitioners ( NP) and physician assistants ( PA) regarding the performance of specified reserved medical procedures and to support governmental decision-making. Nationwide mixed methods design with triangulation of quantitative ( Pre-post test design) and qualitative data ( expert interviews and focus groups). Surveys focused on the performance of the procedures ( monthly number , authorisation mode , consultations and procedural time) and legal cross-compliance requirements ( adherence with protocols , competence). Interviews focused on competence , knowledge , skills , responsibilities , routine behaviour , NP/PA role , acceptance , organisational structure , collaboration , consultation , NP/PA positioning , adherence with protocols and resources. Data collection took place between 2011 and 2015. Quantitative data included 1251 NPs , 798 PAs and 504 physicians. Besides , expert interviews with 33 healthcare providers and 28 key stakeholders , and 5 focus groups ( 31 healthcare providers) were held.After obtaining FPA , the proportion of NPs and PAs performing reserved procedures increased from 77 % to 85 % and from 86 % to 93 % , respectively; the proportion of procedures performed on own authority increased from 63 % to 76 % for NPs and from 67 % to 71 % for PAs. The mean number of monthly contacts between NPs/PAs and physicians about procedures decreased ( from 81 to 49 and from 107 to 54 , respectively) , as did the mean duration in minutes ( from 9.9 to 8.6 and from 8.8 to 7.4 , respectively). Utilisation of FPA was dependent on the setting , as scepticism of physicians and medical boards hampered full implementation. Legal cross-compliance requirements were mostly fulfilled. Informal practice was legalised. The opportunities to independently perform catheterisations , injections , prescribing , punctures and small surgical procedures were highly used. Care processes were organised more efficiently , services were performed by the most appropriate healthcare provider and conditions were met. This led to the recommendation to continue with FPA.