  Prostate cancer is the most common solid organ malignancy in men in the USA with an annual incidence of 105 and an annual mortality rate of 19 per 100,000 people. With the advent of PSA screening , the majority of prostate cancer diagnosed is organ confined. Recent studies including the SPCG-4 and PIVOT trials have demonstrated a survival benefit for those undergoing active treatment for localized prostate cancer. The foremost surgical option has been radical prostatectomy ( RP). The gold standard has been open radical retropubic prostatectomy ( RRP); however , minimally invasive approaches including laparoscopic and robotic approaches are commonplace and increasing in popularity. We aim to describe the surgical options for the treatment of localized prostate cancer by reviewing the literature. A review of the literature was undertaken using MEDLINE and PubMed. Articles addressing the topic of radical prostatectomy by open , laparoscopic and robotic approaches were selected. Studies comparing the different modalities were also identified. These articles were reviewed for data pertaining to perioperative , oncological and functional outcomes. There is a paucity of randomized studies comparing the three modalities. The published data has demonstrated a benefit in favour of robotically assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy ( RALP) over laparoscopic radical prostatectomy ( LRP) and traditional open RRP in perioperative outcomes. When reviewing the best-reported outcomes for RALP compared to LRP and RRP , operative times are lower ( 105 vs. 138 vs. 138 min) , estimated blood<symptom> loss<symptom> rates are lower ( 111 vs. 200 vs. 300 ml) and blood transfusion rates are lower as in the length of stay ( 1 vs. 2 vs. 2.3 days) and overall complication rates ( 4.3 vs. 5 vs. 20 %). Similarly , when reviewing functional outcomes , RALP compared to LRP was not inferior. At 12 months , the reported continence was 97 vs. 94 vs. 89 % and potency was 94 vs. 77 vs. 90 %. In comparative studies , however , these differences did not always meet statistical significance. With respect to oncological outcomes , there was no clear evidence of superiority of one modality over another. RALP is now the most common modality for surgical treatment of organ-confined prostate cancer. Individual series appear to support better perioperative outcomes and perhaps quicker return to functional outcomes. There does not appear to be a clear advantage to date in oncological parameters; however , RALP does not appear to be inferior to either LRP or RRP. It is anticipated that further high quality randomized studies will shed more light on the clinical and statistical significance in the comparison between these modalities.