  There is little consensus on the amount of worldwide food waste generation because many current estimates are indirect and link back to the same limited primary datasets , with much of the data originating from fieldwork undertaken in the 1970s and 1980s. Direct measurement of waste streams , through waste composition studies , can be used to develop accurate estimates of food waste disposal. In Ontario , Canada , municipalities that undertake household waste composition studies all use a common direct measurement methodology that includes a broad range of waste categories , including food waste. The purpose of this research was to estimate the quantity of food waste disposed , in the garbage stream , by households in southern Ontario , Canada , and determine if this common methodology could be expanded and serve as the basis of a standardized and rigorous household food waste measurement methodology. Household waste composition study data ( 2012-2015) , including a single `` food waste '' category , were gathered from 9 Ontario municipalities , aggregated and analyzed to develop estimates of food waste in the garbage stream. On average , households disposed 2.40 kg/week of food waste in the garbage , which comprised 35.4 % of this waste stream. This does not include any food waste otherwise disposed ( e.g. , sink) or recycled ( e.g. , composted). Urban households disposed significantly greater amounts of food waste compared to rural households in the spring ( p = 0.01) and summer ( p = 0.02). Households with access to a green bin program disposed significantly less food waste than those with no access to a green bin program in the spring ( p = 0.03) and summer ( p < 0.01). The common methodology used to develop these estimates shows promise as the basis of a household food waste measurement methodology. This future methodology would include dividing food waste into avoidable and unavoidable food waste categories , as well as adding subcategories ( e.g. , avoidable fruits and vegetables).