  In evidence-informed policy-making ( EIP) , major knowledge gaps remain in understanding the context and possibilities for institutionalisation of knowledge translation. In 2014 , the WHO Evidence-informed Policy Network ( EVIPNet) Europe initiated a number of pilot countries , with Hungary among them , to engage in a ` situation analysis ' ( SA) in order to fill some of those gaps. This contribution discusses the results of the SA in Hungary on research-policy interactions , facilitating factors and potential barriers to establish a knowledge translation platform ( KTP). In line with the EVIPNet Europe SA Manual , a document analysis , 13 interviews , 3 focus group discussions with 21 participants , and an online survey with 31 respondents were carried out from April to October , 2015. A SA aims to assess the context in which EIP takes form and seeks opportunities to establish a KTP , so information was gathered on the current practice of EIP and knowledge translation , its relevant actors , enablers and barriers for EIP , and opinions on a future KTP. Methodological and researcher triangulation resulted in a narrative synthesis of data , including a comparison with literature. A stakeholder consultation was organised to validate findings. This study reveals that stakeholders show commitment to produce and use research evidence in Hungarian health policy-making. All stakeholders endorsed the idea of strengthening the systematic use of evidence in decision-making and favoured the idea of establishing a KTP. In line with literature on other countries , some good practices exist on the uptake of evidence in policy-making; however , a systematic approach of developing , translating and using research evidence in health policy processes is lacking. EIP is currently hampered by scattered capacity , coordination problems , high fluctuation in government , an often legalistic and a more ` symbolic ' rather than practical support for knowledge translation and EIP. The article summarises recommendations on a Hungarian KTP. Pragmatic adaptation of the SA Manual to local needs proved to be a useful mechanism to provide insight into the Hungarian EIP field and the establishment of a potential KTP. Despite the success of a KTP pilot , it remains unclear how a KTP in Hungary will be institutionalised in a sustainable way.