  It has long been contested that trade rules and agreements are used to dispute regulations aimed at preventing noncommunicable diseases ( NCDs). Yet most analyses of trade rules and agreements focus on trade disputes , potentially overlooking how a challenge to a regulation 's consistency with trade rules may lead to ` policy or regulatory chill<symptom> ' effects whereby countries delay , alter , or repeal regulations in order to avoid the costs of a dispute. Systematic empirical analysis of this pathway to impact was previously prevented by a dearth of systematically coded data. Here , we analyse a newly created dataset of trade challenges about food , beverage , and tobacco regulations among 122 World Trade Organization ( WTO) members from January 1 , 1995 to December 31 , 2016. We thematically describe the scope and frequency of trade challenges , analyse economic asymmetries between countries raising and defending them , and summarise 4 cases of their possible influence. Between 1995 and 2016 , 93 food , beverage , and tobacco regulations were challenged at the WTO. ` Unnecessary ' trade costs were the focus of 16.4 % of the challenges. Only one ( 1.1 %) challenge remained unresolved and escalated to a trade dispute. Thirty-nine ( 41.9 %) challenges focussed on labelling regulations , and 18 ( 19.4 %) focussed on quality standards and restrictions on certain products like processed meats and cigarette flavourings. High-income countries raised 77.4 % ( n = 72) of all challenges raised against low- and lower-middle-income countries. We further identified 4 cases in Indonesia , Chile , Colombia , and Saudi Arabia in which challenges were associated with changes to food and beverage regulations. Data limitations precluded a comprehensive evaluation of policy impact and challenge validity. Policy makers appear to face significant pressure to design food , beverage , and tobacco regulations that other countries will deem consistent with trade rules. Trade-related influence on public health policy is likely to be understated by analyses limited to formal trade disputes.