  Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR) and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio ( PLR) , indexes of systemic inflammation<symptom> , have been associated with worse survival for many types of cancer. The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of NLR and PLR on overall survival ( OS) and to explore the value of changes in the NLR and PLR with treatment as a response indicator in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC). A total of 68 NSCLC patients in Peking University Third Hospital were eligible for retrospective analysis between April 2008 and April 2015. The pretreatment and posttreatment NLR and PLR in all patients were calculated based on complete blood counts. Potential prognostic factors such as age , gender , performance status , histology , stage , response to chemotherapy , NLR and PLR were analyzed. NLR and PLR were assessed at baseline and during chemotherapy treatment. OS was calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were performed to determine the associations of the PLR , NLR and clinical features with OS. Among the 68 cases , the values of the posttreatment NLR after two cycles of chemotherapy ( NLR2) and the pretreatment NLR ( NLR0) were ( 2.69 ± 2.06) and ( 3.94 ± 2.12) , respectively. NLR2 was significantly lower than NLR0 ( P = 0.000). There was no difference between the pretreatment PLR ( PLR0) and the posttreatment PLR after two cycles of chemotherapy ( PLR2) ( P < 0.05). NLR2 significantly correlated with the response of first line treatment with two or four cycles of chemotherapy. The proportion of high NLR2 in the patients with progression disease was 100.0 % , significantly higher than the proportion of high NLR2 in the patients with partial response or stable disease. NLR0 , PLR0 and NLR2 were significantly correlated with the OS ( P < 0.05) , but not with age , performance status , histology , stage , status and regimens of treatment ( P > 0.05). According to univariate analysis , the OS was significantly associated with NLR0 , PLR0 , NLR2 , the response of 2 and 4 cycles of first line chemotherapy , status and regimens of second line treatment ( P < 0.05) , but not with stage , status of third line or beyond treatment and radiotherapy ( P > 0.05). The multivariate analysis showed that NLR0 ( P = 0.004) , the response with 4 cycles of first line chemotherapy ( P = 0.022) and status of second line treatment ( P = 0.007) were independent prognostic indicators in the 68 patients. The study showed that NLR0 was well connected with outcomes and NLR2 was well connected with the response to first line chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Therefore , NLR may be a biomarker for predicting the outcomes and response of first line chemotherapy and a potential target for management of non-small cell lung cancer.