  A quarter of acute hospital beds are occupied by persons living with dementia , many of whom have communication problems. Healthcare professionals lack confidence in dementia communication skills , but there are no evidence-based communication skills training approaches appropriate for professionals working in this context. We aimed to develop and pilot a dementia communication skills training course that was acceptable and useful to healthcare professionals , hospital patients and their relatives. The course was developed using conversation analytic findings from video recordings of healthcare professionals talking to patients living with dementia in the acute hospital , together with systematic review evidence of dementia communication skills training and taking account of expert and service-user opinion. The two-day course was based on experiential learning theory , and included simulation and video workshops , reflective diaries and didactic teaching. Actors were trained to portray patients living with dementia for the simulation exercises. Six courses were run between January and May 2017. 44/45 healthcare professionals attended both days of the course. Evaluation entailed: questionnaires on confidence in dementia communication; a dementia communication knowledge test; and participants ' satisfaction. Video-recorded , simulated assessments were used to measure changes in communication behaviour. Healthcare professionals increased their knowledge of dementia communication ( mean improvement 1.5/ 10; 95 % confidence interval 1.0-2.0; p < 0.001). Confidence in dementia communication also increased ( mean improvement 5.5/ 45; 95 % confidence interval 4.1-6.9; p < 0.001) and the course was well-received. One month later participants reported using the skills learned in clinical practice. Blind-ratings of simulated patient encounters demonstrated behaviour change in taught communication behaviours to close an encounter , consistent with the training , but not in requesting behaviours. We have developed an innovative , evidence-based dementia communication skills training course which healthcare professionals found useful and after which they demonstrated improved dementia communication knowledge , confidence and behaviour.