  In classical models of tumorigenesis , the accumulation of tumor promoting chromosomal aberrations is described as a gradual process. Next-generation sequencing-based methods have recently revealed complex patterns of chromosomal aberrations , which are beyond explanation by these classical models of karyotypic evolution of tumor genomes. Thus , the term chromothripsis has been introduced to describe a phenomenon , where temporarily and spatially confined genomic instability results in dramatic chromosomal rearrangements limited to segments of one or a few chromosomes. Simultaneously arising and misrepaired DNA double-strand breaks are also the cause of another phenomenon called chromoplexy , which is characterized by the presence of chained translocations and interlinking deletion bridges involving several chromosomes. In this study , we demonstrate the genome-wide identification of chromosomal translocations based on the analysis of translocation-associated changes in spatial proximities of chromosome territories on the example of the cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cell line Se-Ax. We have used alterations of intra- and interchromosomal interaction probabilities as detected by genome-wide chromosome conformation capture ( Hi-C) to infer the presence of translocations and to fine-map their breakpoints. The outcome of this analysis was subsequently compared to datasets on DNA copy number alterations and gene expression. The presence of chained translocations within the Se-Ax genome , partly connected by intervening deletion bridges , indicates a role of chromoplexy in the etiology of this cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Notably , translocation breakpoints were significantly overrepresented in genes , which highlight gene-associated biological processes like transcription or other gene characteristics as a possible cause of the observed complex rearrangements. Given the relevance of chromosomal aberrations for basic and translational research , genome-wide high-resolution analysis of structural chromosomal aberrations will gain increasing importance.