  High levels of sedentary behavior are linked to increased mortality. In the United States , individuals spend 55-70 % of their waking day being sedentary. Since most individuals spend large portions of their daily lives at work , quantifying the time engaged in sedentary behavior at work is emerging as an important health determinant. Studies profiling academic institutions , where a variety of personnel with diverse job descriptions are employed , are limited. Available studies focus mostly on subjective methods , with few using objective approaches. Therefore , the purpose of the current study was to assess sedentary behavior among all occupational groups of a college in the Northeastern United States utilizing both a subjective and an objective method. College employees ( n = 367) completed the Occupational Sitting and Physical Activity Questionnaire ( OSPAQ). A sub-sample of these employees ( n = 127) subsequently wore an activPAL3 accelerometer 24 h per day for seven consecutive days. Outcome variables were time spent sitting , standing , stepping , and total number of steps. To assess fragmentation of sedentary behavior , the average duration of a sitting bout and sitting bouts/sitting hour were calculated. Differences between administrators , faculty , and staff , were analyzed using multivariate and univariate analyses of variance. The OSPAQ results indicated that administrators spent more of their working day sedentary ( 73.2 ± 17.7 %) than faculty members ( 58.5 ± 19.6 % , p < 0.05). For the objective phase of the study , complete data were analyzed from 86 participants. During a waking day , administrators ( 64.0 ± 8.1 %) were more sedentary than faculty ( 56.0 ± 7.9 % , p < 0.05) and fragmented their sitting less than staff ( 3.7 ± 0.7 and 4.5 ± 7.9 bouts of sitting/sitting hour , respectively; p < 0.05). This pattern was also seen during working hours , with administrators ( 4.9 ± 2.1) taking fewer breaks per hour than staff ( 6.9 ± 3.0 , p < 0.05). Administrators are the most sedentary members of the campus community. However , overall , the level of sedentary behavior among employees was high. This study highlights the need for sedentary behavior interventions in the college/university environment.