  To assess the diagnostic validity of clusters combining history elements and physical examination tests to diagnose partial or complete anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) tears. Prospective diagnostic study. Orthopaedic clinics ( n = 2) , family medicine clinics ( n = 2) and community-dwelling. Consecutive patients with a knee complaint ( n = 279) and consulting one of the participating orthopaedic surgeons ( n = 3) or sport medicine physicians ( n = 2). Not applicable. History elements and physical examination tests performed independently were compared to the reference standard: an expert physicians ' composite diagnosis including history elements , physical tests and confirmatory magnetic resonance imaging. Penalized logistic regression ( LASSO) was used to identify history elements and physical examination tests associated with the diagnosis of ACL tear and recursive partitioning was used to develop diagnostic clusters. Diagnostic accuracy measures including sensitivity ( Se) , specificity ( Sp) , predictive values and positive and negative likelihood ratios ( LR +/-) with associated 95 % confidence intervals ( CI) were calculated. Forty-three individuals received a diagnosis of partial or complete ACL tear ( 15.4 % of total cohort). The Lachman test alone was able to diagnose partial or complete ACL tears ( LR +: 38.4; 95 % CI: 16.0-92.5). Combining a history of trauma during a pivot with a `` popping '' sensation also reached a high diagnostic validity for partial or complete tears ( LR +: 9.8; 95 % CI: 5.6-17.3). Combining a history of trauma during a pivot , immediate effusion<symptom> after trauma and a positive Lachman test was able to identify individuals with a complete ACL tear ( LR +: 17.5; 95 % CI: 9.8-31.5). Finally , combining a negative history of pivot or a negative popping sensation during trauma with a negative Lachman or pivot shift test was able to exclude both partial or complete ACL tears ( LR-: 0.08; 95 % CI: 0.03-0.24). Diagnostic clusters combining history elements and physical examination tests can support the differential diagnosis of ACL tears compared to various knee disorders.