  Employing malaria<disease> operational research ( MOR) findings in planning national malaria<disease> control programmes is gaining increased attention. The malaria<disease> control foci are diverse , resources are limited; therefore , agreeing on priority areas is critical. Hitherto , the process of prioritising MOR questions in Nigeria has been limited to few stakeholders. In support of the National Malaria Elimination Programme 's ( NMEP) effort at setting a MOR agenda , the Nigeria Field Epidemiology and Laboratory Training Programme ( NFELTP) in collaboration with NMEP conducted preliminary exploratory study to identify key malaria<disease> research gaps and needs , and provide data to inform setting a robust national MOR agenda. The process of generating data is presented in this paper. A twelve-member task-team comprising NFELTP , university researchers and NMEP officers was commissioned. Following an inaugural meeting the task-team developed a framework of activities and held five planning meetings , conducted five-week online and self-administered paper-based surveys , key informant interview ( KII) , two-day desk review workshop , seven-day qualitative data analysis , ten-day result and five-day report writing workshops. Paired group members conducted the interviews across six geopolitical zones of Nigeria. Abridged study report was used for a two-day MOR setting agenda stakeholders ' workshop. A structured framework , study protocol and data collection instruments were developed and submitted for ethical approval. The instruments included survey questionnaire for detailed information on researchers and other stakeholders ' experience with MOR , the gaps and needs in thematic MOR areas; KII and Delphi guides. After an initial scoping review , primary data were collected from purposively selected survey participants using mixed methods:- online survey ( n = 100) , self-administered paper-based survey ( n = 85) , KII ( n = 40) , desk review workshop ( n = 22) and Delphi interviews ( n = 8). Comprehensive lists of research gaps/bottlenecks and needs were generated for each thematic area in malaria<disease> control. These were used at a two-day national MOR setting stakeholder workshop ( n = 54) to guide the development of national MOR agenda document. A systematic approach involving broad stakeholder engagement provided data and evidence-based information for development of a robust national MOR agenda. The processes involved are recommended for use in malaria<disease> endemic settings.