  Arthroscopic-assisted latissimus dorsi tendon transfer ( LDTT) has shown promising results with good outcomes in patients with massive rotator cuff tears ( MRCTs) , as reported by individual studies. However , to the best of the authors ' knowledge , no systematic review has been performed to assess the collective outcomes of these individual studies. The primary purpose of this study was to assess patient outcomes after arthroscopic-assisted LDTT for the management of MRCTs. The secondary objectives were to report on the management of MRCTs , including diagnostic investigations , surgical decision making , and arthroscopic techniques , as well as to evaluate the quality of evidence of the existing literature. It was hypothesized that nearly all patients were satisfied with arthroscopic-assisted LDTT and that they experienced improvements in pain symptoms<symptom> , function , and strength after the procedure , with an overall complication rate of less than 10 %. Systematic review; Level of evidence , 4. The databases MEDLINE , Embase , and PubMed were searched from database inception ( 1946) until August 18 , 2017 , with titles , abstracts , and full-text articles screened independently by 2 reviewers. Inclusion criteria were English-language studies investigating arthroscopic-assisted LDTT for the management of MRCTs on patients of all ages. Conference papers , book chapters , review articles , and technical reports were excluded. The quality of the included studies was categorized by level of evidence and the Methodological Index for Non-Randomized Studies ( MINORS) checklist. In total , 8 studies ( 7 case series ( median MINORS score , 7 of 16) and 1 prospective comparative study ( median MINORS score , 14 of 24)) were identified; the studies included 258 patients ( 258 shoulders) with MRCTs treated with LDTT using arthroscopic-assisted techniques. The decision to pursue surgery was based on both clinical findings and investigations in 5 studies , investigations only in 2 studies , and clinical findings only in 1 study. Overall , 88 % of patients were satisfied with the results of surgery and experienced significant improvement in their symptoms , including shoulder pain , strength , range of motion , and overall function , over a mean follow-up period of 34.3 months. Overall , there was a low rate of complications ( 7 %) associated with the procedure. Arthroscopic-assisted LDTT for MRCTs provides patients with marked improvement in shoulder pain , strength , and function , and the procedure is associated with a low risk of complication. Further high-quality comparative studies are warranted to validate these findings in comparison with other operative techniques.