  The Recovery Record smartphone app is a self-monitoring tool for individuals recovering from an eating disorder. Unlike traditional pen-and-paper meal diaries , which are often used in eating disorder treatment , the app holds novel features , such as meal reminders , affirmations , and patient-clinician in-app linkage , the latter allowing for clinicians to continuously monitor patients ' app data. To explore patients ' experiences with using Recovery Record as part of outpatient eating disorder treatment. A total of 41 patients from a Danish eating disorder treatment facility were included in the study. All 41 patients participated in participant observations of individual or group treatment sessions , and 26 were interviewed about their experiences with using the app in treatment. The data material was generated and analyzed concurrently , applying the inductive methodology of Interpretive Description. The patients ' experiences with Recovery Record depended on its app features , the impact of these features on patients , and their specific app usage. This patient-app interaction affected and was affected by changeable contexts making patients ' experiences dynamic. The patient-app interaction affected patients ' placement of specific Recovery Record app features along a continuum from supportive to obstructive of individual everyday life activities including the eating disorder treatment. As an example , some patients found it supportive being notified by their clinician when their logs had been monitored as it gave them a sense of relatedness. Contrarily , other patients felt under surveillance , which was obstructive , as it made them feel uneasy or even dismissing the app. Some patients experienced the app and its features as mostly supportive of their everyday life and the eating disorder treatment , while others experienced it primarily as obstructive. When applying apps in eating disorder treatment , we therefore recommend that patients and clinicians collaborate to determine how the app in question best fits the capacities , preferences , and treatment needs of the individual patient. Thus , we encourage patients and clinicians to discuss how specific features of the applied app affect the individual patient to increase the use of supportive features , while limiting the use of obstructive ones.