  Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine tumor. Our previous studies have demonstrated that curcumin can induce apoptosis in human papillary thyroid carcinoma BCPAP cells. However , the underlined mechanism has not been clearly elucidated. Endoplasmic reticulum ( ER) is a major organelle for synthesis , maturation , and folding proteins as well as a large store for Ca. Overcoming chronically activated ER stress by triggering pro-apoptotic pathways of the unfolded protein response ( UPR) is a novel strategy for cancer therapeutics. Our study aimed to uncover the ER stress pathway involved in the apoptosis caused by curcumin. BCPAP cells were treated with different doses of curcumin ( 12.5-50 μM). Annexin V/PI double staining was used to determine cell apoptosis. Rhod-2/ AM calcium fluorescence probe assay was performed to measure the calcium level of endoplasmic reticulum. Western blot was used to examine the expression of ER stress marker C/EBP homologous protein 10 ( CHOP) and glucose-regulated protein 78 ( GRP78). X-box binding protein1 ( XBP-1) spliced form was examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR). Curcumin significantly inhibited anchorage-independent cell growth and induced apoptosis in BCPAP cells. Curcumin induced ER stress and UPR responses in a dose- and time-dependent manner , and the chemical chaperone 4-phenylbutyrate ( 4-PBA) partially reversed the antigrowth activity of curcumin. Moreover , curcumin significantly increased inositol-requiring enzyme 1α ( IRE1α) phosphorylation and XBP-1 mRNA splicing to induce a subsets of ER chaperones. Increased cleavage of activating transcription factor 6 ( ATF6) , which enhances expression of its downstream target CHOP was also observed. Furthermore , curcumin induced intracellular Ca influx through inhibition of the sarco-endoplasmic reticulum ATPase 2A ( SERCA2) pump. The increased cytosolic Ca then bound to calmodulin to activate calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II ( CaMKII) signaling , leading to mitochondrial apoptosis pathway activation. Ca chelator BAPTA partially reversed curcumin-induced ER stress and growth suppression , confirming the possible involvement of calcium homeostasis disruption in this response. Curcumin inhibits thyroid cancer cell growth , at least partially , through ER stress-associated apoptosis. Our observations provoked that ER stress activation may be a promising therapeutic target for thyroid cancer treatment. ( Figure is included in full-text article.).