  Incidental diagnosis of carcinoma endometrium following hysterectomy requires clinical expertise from a gynecologic oncologist , with regard to subsequent management. We report our experience with completion staging in endometrial cancer , to determine the benefits and risks of completion staging in women with posthysterectomy diagnosis of endometrial cancer. A retrospective case series of 20 women with postoperative diagnosis of endometrial cancer , who had undergone completion staging. A gynaecologic oncology unit in a tertiary level hospital in Tamil Nadu , India. Electronic medical records of patients who underwent completion staging between January 2011 and December 2014 for endometrial cancer were reviewed. Two hundred and sixty four women with endometrial cancer were evaluated during this period. Twenty women with carcinoma endometrium , with a mean age of 53 ( range 31-67) who were previously inadequately staged , were found to be at risk of extrauterine disease , following histopathological review , consented to undergo completion staging over an average of 57 days ( range 30-91) following the initial surgery. Forty-five percent ( 9/20) had a BMI of more than 30 , and 40 % ( 8/20) had metabolic syndrome<disease>. The most common indications for the initial surgery were perimenopausal abnormal uterine bleeding and postmenopausal bleeding. Only eight patients had a pre-hysterectomy endometrial sampling/biopsy ( 40 %) of whom , one had a pre-operative diagnosis of carcinoma endometrium. Sixteen ( 80 %) had pathological risk factors for lymph nodal involvement and in the others , besides histological grading , surgicopathological details for risk assessment were unavailable. Adnexae were retained in 11 , and uterus was bisected/cored during surgery in three women. Following completion staging , 5/20 ( 25 %) patients were upstaged , 9 ( 45 %) required no adjuvant treatment , 5 required vaginal brachytherapy therapy alone and 5 were advised chemotherapy and radiation. Two patients during the study period of 48 months had disease recurrence , and two women died of disease progression. Complications of surgery included the following: iliac vein injury ( 1) and bladder injury ( 1). Patients with incidental diagnosis of endometrial cancer following hysterectomy after clinical and radiological assessment and histopathological review , should be offered completion staging , if at risk for extrauterine disease. Completion staging permits appropriate prognostication of disease and thereby allows tailoring of adjuvant treatment , avoiding risks of overtreatment and undertreatment.