  Anecdotal reports from Bangladesh indicated that some young adults were becoming addicted to online pornography similar to how others become addicted to gambling , drugs , and alcohol. Such behaviors can have social , academic , and behavioral implications in this population. This study investigated the association between consumption of online pornography and sociobehavioral patterns among students from a private university in Bangladesh. In total , 299 undergraduate students ( 70.6 % male) at the First Capital University of Bangladesh were interviewed using a structured questionnaire. The questions included sociodemographic characteristics , online-based pornography consumption habits and sociobehavioral characteristics. Chi-square test and binary logistic regression analysis were performed to examine correlations between online pornography addiction and sociobehavioral factors such as socializing habits , nature of interactions , university attendance and study focus , sleeping habits , and consumption of main meals. The use of pornography was significantly higher among students who gathered late nights<symptom> with their friends ( 58.4 % , P < 0.001). Furthermore , those who frequently argue/fight with their friends ( 51.0 % , P = 0.001) frequently fooled around with their friends ( 48.4 % , P < 0.001) and those who did not go to bed on time ( 57.7 % , P < 0.001) reported greater consumption of pornography. Students who fooled around with their friends and those did not go to bed on time were more than twice as likely to watch pornography than students who did not fool around , and those went to bed on time. The study provides the first overview of online pornography consumption. A significant proportion of male students consumed erotic materials online than females. Students who did not go to bed emerged to consume online pornography. Such behaviors can have negative impacts on studies education outcomes as well as wider social and moral impacts for students and the society as a whole. In this digital era , technology has invaded every aspect of our lives , with increasing access to the internet. Therefore , it is imperative to provide specifically designed pornography addiction education programs to educate students about the adverse effects of pornography. Furthermore , targeted treatment programs for sexual addiction , sexual abuse , and pornography abuse are needed to support the individuals who are addicted to pornography.