  Head and gaze directions are used during social interactions as essential cues to infer where someone attends. When head and gaze are oriented toward opposite directions , we need to extract socially meaningful information despite stimulus conflict. Recently , a cognitive and neural mechanism for filtering-out conflicting stimuli has been identified while performing non-social attention tasks. This mechanism is engaged proactively when conflict is anticipated in a high proportion of trials and reactively when conflict occurs infrequently. Here , we investigated whether a similar mechanism is at play for limiting distraction from conflicting social cues during gaze or head direction discrimination tasks in contexts with different probabilities of conflict. Results showed that , for the gaze direction task only ( Experiment 1) , inverse efficiency ( IE) scores for distractor-absent trials ( i.e. , faces with averted gaze and centrally oriented head) were larger ( indicating worse performance) when these trials were intermixed with congruent/incongruent distractor-present trials ( i.e. , faces with averted gaze and tilted head in the same/opposite direction) relative to when the same distractor-absent trials were shown in isolation. Moreover , on distractor-present trials , IE scores for congruent ( vs. incongruent) head-gaze pairs in blocks with rare conflict were larger than in blocks with frequent conflict , suggesting that adaptation to conflict was more efficient than adaptation to infrequent events. However , when the task required discrimination of head orientation while ignoring gaze direction , performance was not impacted by both block-level and current trial congruency ( Experiment 2) , unless the cognitive load of the task was increased by adding a concurrent task ( Experiment 3). Overall , our study demonstrates that during attention to social cues proactive cognitive control mechanisms are modulated by the expectation of conflicting stimulus information at both the block- and trial-sequence level , and by the type of task and cognitive load. This helps to clarify the inherent differences in the distracting potential of head and gaze cues during speeded social attention tasks.