  Patients with major depressive disorder may exhibit cognitive dysfunction that can affect functional outcomes. However , the prevalence and burden of cognitive dysfunction in Japanese patients with MDD have not been thoroughly examined. To investigate the time course ( over 6 months) of several functional outcomes during treatment with antidepressants in Japanese patients with major depressive disorder. The primary objective is to assess longitudinal changes in cognitive function and depressive symptoms , using both clinician-rated and patient-rated scales. The study incorporates assessments of cognitive function and other functional outcomes ( functional capacity , disability , work productivity and impairments of activity , and quality of life) , as well as depressive symptoms. PERFORM-J ( Prospective Epidemiological Research on Functioning Outcomes Related to Major Depressive Disorder in Japan) is a 6-month , prospective , multi-center , epidemiological cohort study. Participants are Japanese outpatients aged 18-65 years with a recurrent or new diagnosis of a major depressive episode ( according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , 4th Edition , Text Revision ( DSM-IV-TR)) , who are initiating a new antidepressant as monotherapy ( either as ﬁrst-line therapy or after switching from a previous antidepressant). Eligible patients are evaluated objectively during four visits ( at baseline and at Months 1 , 2 , and 6) using physician-rated assessments of severity of depressive symptoms , cognitive function , and functional capacity. Subjective , patient-reported , outcomes are also assessed as indicators of depressive symptoms , disability , work productivity or impairments of activity , and perceived cognitive dysfunction. The study began in September 2016. Patient enrollment was completed on June 30 , 2017 , with 523 patients having been enrolled from 48 study sites. As of October , 2017 , 279 patients had completed the study. PERFORM-J is expected to provide valuable information on the longitudinal relationship between cognitive dysfunction , depressive symptoms , and other functional outcomes in Japanese patients with major depressive disorder who initiate monotherapy with antidepressants. UMIN Clinical Trials Registry UMIN000024320; https://upload.umin.ac.jp/cgi-open-bin/ctr_e/ctr_view.cgi? recptno = R000028011 ( Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/70K7W9PgC). RR1-10.2196/ 9682.