  Despite the successful clinical application of titanium ( Ti) as a biomaterial , the exact cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for Ti osseointegration remains unclear , especially because of the limited methodological tools available in this field. In this study , we present a microscopic and molecular characterization of an oral implant osseointegration model using C57Bl/6 mice. Forty-eight male wild-type mice received a Ti implant on the edentulous alveolar crest and the peri-implant sites were evaluated through microscopic ( μCT , histological and birefringence) and molecular ( RealTimePCRarray) analysis in different points in time after surgery ( 3 , 7 , 14 and 21 days). The early stages of osseointegration were marked by an increased expression of growth factors and MSC markers. Subsequently , a provisional granulation tissue was formed , with high expression of VEGFb and earlier osteogenic markers ( BMPs , ALP and Runx2). The immune/inflammatory phase was evidenced by an increased density of inflammatory cells , and high expression of cytokines ( TNF , IL6 , IL1) chemokines ( CXCL3 , CCL2 , CCL5 and CXC3CL1) and chemokine receptors ( CCR2 and CCR5). Also , iNOS expression remained low , while ARG1 was upregulated , indicating predominance of a M2-type response. At later points in time , the bone matrix density and volume were increased , in agreement with a high expression of Col1a1 and Col21a2. The remodelling process was marked by peaks of MMPs , RANKL and OPG expression at 14 days , and an increased density of osteoclasts. At 21 days , intimate Ti/bone contact was observed , with expression of final osteoblast differentiation markers ( PHEX , SOST) , as well as red spectrum collagen fibers. This study demonstrated a unique molecular view of oral osseointegration kinetics in C57Bl/6 mice , evidencing potential elements responsible for orchestrating cell migration , proliferation , ECM deposition and maturation , angiogenesis , bone formation and remodeling at the bone-implant interface in parallel with a novel microscopic analysis.