  Tip position verification of peripherally inserted central catheters ( PICCs) is essential to the use of the catheter. Postprocedural chest X-ray as the `` gold standard '' practice for PICC tip confirmation can lead to a significant delay for patient IV therapy , cost more , and lead to radiation exposure for both patients and staffs. Intracavitary electrocardiogram ( IC-ECG)- guided PICC placement which provides real-time tip confirmation during the insertion procedure has been widely used. However , safety and accuracy of ECG for abnormal surface ECG patients , such as patients with atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( AF) , have not been reported. To determine the safety and accuracy of IC-ECG technique for PICC tip position verification among the patients with AF. A prospective cohort study was conducted in a teaching and tertiary referral hospital with more than 3,600 beds in Qingdao , People 's Republic of China. Adult patients with diagnosis of AF who need a PICC for infusion from June 2015 to May 2017 were enrolled in the study. For every included patient with AF , ECG was used to detect the PICC tip position during catheterization and X-ray was done to confirm the tip position as the `` gold standard '' after PICC insertion. The effectiveness and accuracy of ECG-guided catheter tip positioning and chest X-ray confirmation were compared. Totally , 118 AF patients with 118 PICCs were enrolled ( 58 male and 60 female , age range 50-89 years old). There was no catheterization-related complication. When the catheter entered the lower 1/3 of superior vena cava , the amplitude of f wave reached the maximum. There was no statistical difference between X-ray PICC tip position verification and IC-ECG PICC tip position verification among patients with AF ( The ECG-guided technique represents a safe and accurate technique to verify the position of PICC tip in patients with AF and could potentially remove the requirement for postprocedural chest X-ray among the patients with AF.