  Alzheimer 's disease ( AD) is characterized by physiologically endogenous proteins amyloid beta ( Aβ) and tau undergoing a conformational change and accumulating as soluble oligomers and insoluble aggregates. Tau and Aβ soluble oligomers , which contain extensive β-sheet secondary structure , are thought to be the most toxic forms. The objective of this study was to determine the ability of TWF9 , an anti-β-sheet conformation antibody ( aβComAb) , to selectively recognize pathological Aβ and phosphorylated tau in AD human tissue compared with cognitively normal age-matched controls and to improve the performance of old 3xTg-AD mice with advanced pathology in behavioral testing after acute treatment with TWF9. In this study , we used immunohistochemistry , immunoprecipitation , and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA) to characterize TWF9 specificity. We further assessed cognitive performance in old ( 18-22 months) 3xTg-AD mice using both a Barnes maze and novel object recognition after intraperitoneal administration of TWF9 ( 4 mg/kg) biweekly for 2 weeks before the start of behavioral testing. Injections continued for the duration of the behavioral testing , which lasted 2 weeks. Histological analysis of TWF9 in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded human control and AD ( ABC score: A3B3C3) brain tissue revealed preferential cytoplasmic immunoreactivity in neurons in the AD tissue compared with controls ( p < 0.05). Furthermore , ELISA using oligomeric and monomeric Aβ showed a preferential affinity for oligomeric Aβ. Immunoprecipitation studies showed that TWF9 extracted both phosphorylated tau ( p < 0.01) and Aβ ( p < 0.01) from fresh frozen brain tissues. Results show that treated old 3xTg-AD mice have an enhanced novel object recognition memory ( p < 0.01) and Barnes maze performance ( p = 0.05) compared with control animals. Overall plaque burden , neurofibrillary tangles , microgliosis , and astrocytosis remained unchanged. Soluble phosphorylated tau was significantly reduced in TWF9-treated mice ( p < 0.05) , and there was a trend for a reduction in soluble Aβ levels in the brain homogenates of female 3xTg-AD mice ( p = 0.06). This study shows that acute treatment with an aβComAb can effectively improve performance in behavioral testing without reduction of amyloid plaque burden , and that peripherally administered IgG can affect levels of pathological species in the brain.