  Maternal mortality continues to be of great public health importance , however for each woman who dies as the direct or indirect result of pregnancy , many more women experience life-threatening complications. The global burden of severe maternal morbidity ( SMM) is not known , but the World Bank estimates that it is increasing over time. Consistent with rates of maternal mortality , SMM rates are higher in low- and middle-income countries ( LMICs) than in high-income countries ( HICs). Since the WHO recommended that HICs with low maternal mortality ratios begin to examine SMM to identify systems failures and intervention priorities , researchers in many HICs have turned their attention to SMM. Where surveillance has been conducted , the most common etiologies of SMM have been major obstetric hemorrhage<symptom> and hypertensive disorders. Of the countries that have conducted SMM reviews , the most common preventable factors were provider-related , specifically failure to identify `` high risk '' status , delays in diagnosis , and delays in treatment. The highest burden of SMM is in Sub-Saharan Africa , where estimates of SMM are as high as 198 per 1000 live births. Hemorrhage<symptom> and hypertensive disorders are the leading conditions contributing to SMM across all regions. Case reviews are rare , but have revealed patterns of substandard maternal health care and suboptimal use of evidence-based strategies to prevent and treat morbidity. Severe maternal morbidity not only puts the woman 's life at risk , her fetus/neonate may suffer consequences of morbidity and mortality as well. Adverse delivery outcomes occur at a higher frequency among women with SMM. Reducing preventable severe maternal morbidity not only reduces the potential for maternal mortality but also improves the health and well-being of the newborn. Increasing global maternal morbidity is a failure to achieve broad public health goals of improved women 's and infants ' health. It is incumbent upon all countries to implement surveillance initiatives to understand the burden of severe morbidity and to implement review processes for assessing potential preventability.