  The Visible/Infrared Imager/Radiometer Suite ( VIIRS) aboard the Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership ( S-NPP) satellite was launched in 2011 , in part to provide continuity with the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer ( MODIS) instrument aboard National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's ( NASA) Terra and Aqua remote sensing satellites. The VIIRS will eventually replace MODIS for both land science and applications and add to the coarse-resolution , long term data record. It is , therefore , important to provide the user community with an assessment of the consistency of equivalent products from the two sensors. For this study , we do this in the context of example agricultural monitoring applications. Surface reflectance that is routinely delivered within the M ( O , Y) D09 and VNP09 series of products provide critical input for generating downstream products. Given the range of applications utilizing the normalized difference vegetation index ( NDVI) generated from M ( O , Y) D09 and VNP09 products and the inherent differences between MODIS and VIIRS sensors in calibration , spatial sampling , and spectral bands , the main objective of this study is to quantify uncertainties related the transitioning from using MODIS to VIIRS-based NDVI 's. In particular , we compare NDVI 's derived from two sets of Level 3 MYD09 and VNP09 products with various spatial-temporal characteristics , namely 8-day composites at 500 m spatial resolution and daily Climate Modelling Grid ( CMG) images at 0.05 ° spatial resolution. Spectral adjustment of VIIRS I1 ( red) and I2 ( near infra-red- NIR) bands to match MODIS/Aqua b1 ( red) and b2 ( NIR) bands is performed to remove a bias between MODIS and VIIRS-based red , NIR , and NDVI estimates. Overall , red reflectance , NIR reflectance , NDVI uncertainties were 0.014 , 0.029 and 0.056 respectively for the 500 m product and 0.013 , 0.016 and 0.032 for the 0.05 ° product. The study shows that MODIS and VIIRS NDVI data can be used interchangeably for applications with an uncertainty of less than 0.02 to 0.05 , depending on the scale of spatial aggregation , which is typically the uncertainty of the individual dataset.