  Major depression<symptom> is a high-prevalence mental disease with major socio-economic impact , for both the direct and the indirect costs. Major depression<symptom> symptoms can be faked or exaggerated in order to obtain economic compensation from insurance companies. Critically , depression<symptom> is potentially easily malingered , as the symptoms that characterize this psychiatric disorder are not difficult to emulate. Although some tools to assess malingering of psychiatric conditions are already available , they are principally based on self-reporting and are thus easily faked. In this paper , we propose a new method to automatically detect the simulation of depression<symptom> , which is based on the analysis of mouse movements while the patient is engaged in a double-choice computerized task , responding to simple and complex questions about depressive symptoms. This tool clearly has a key advantage over the other tools: the kinematic movement is not consciously controllable by the subjects , and thus it is almost impossible to deceive. Two groups of subjects were recruited for the study. The first one , which was used to train different machine-learning algorithms , comprises 60 subjects ( 20 depressed patients and 40 healthy volunteers); the second one , which was used to test the machine-learning models , comprises 27 subjects ( 9 depressed patients and 18 healthy volunteers). In both groups , the healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to the liars and truth-tellers group. Machine-learning models were trained on mouse dynamics features , which were collected during the subject response , and on the number of symptoms reported by participants. Statistical results demonstrated that individuals that malingered depression<symptom> reported a higher number of depressive and non-depressive symptoms than depressed participants , whereas individuals suffering from depression<symptom> took more time to perform the mouse-based tasks compared to both truth-tellers and liars. Machine-learning models reached a classification accuracy up to 96 % in distinguishing liars from depressed patients and truth-tellers. Despite this , the data are not conclusive , as the accuracy of the algorithm has not been compared with the accuracy of the clinicians; this study presents a possible useful method that is worth further investigation.