  Alveolar bone healing after upper incisor extraction in rats is a classical model of preclinical studies. The underlying morphometric , cellular and molecular mechanism , however , remains imprecise in a unique study. The aim of this study was therefore to characterize the alveolar bone healing after upper incisor extraction in rats by micro computed tomographic ( Micro-CT) , immunohistochemical and real-time polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR) analysis. Thirty animals ( Rattus<pathogen> norvegicus<pathogen> , Albinus Wistar) were divided into three groups after upper incisors extraction at 7 , 14 , and 28 days. Micro-CT was evaluated based on the morphometric parameters. Subsequently , the histological analyses and immunostaining of osteoprotegerin ( OPG) , receptor activator of nuclear kappa B ligand ( RANKL) and tartrate resistant acid phosphate ( TRAP) was performed. In addition , RT-PCR analyses of OPG , RANKL , the runt-related transcription factor 2 ( RUNX2) , osteocalcin ( OC) , osteopontin ( OPN) , osterix ( OST) and receptor activator of nuclear kappa B ( RANK) were performed to determine the expression of these proteins in the alveolar bone healing. Micro-CT: The morphometric parameters of bone volume and trabecular thickness progressively increased over time. Consequently , a gradual decrease in trabecular separation , trabecular space and total bone porosity was observed. Immunohistochemical: There were no differences statistically significant between the positive labeling for OPG , RANKL and TRAP in the different periods. RT-PCR: At 28 days , there was a significant increase in OPG expression , while RANKL expression and the RANKL/OPG ratio both decreased over time. Micro-CT showed the newly formed bone had favorable morphometric characteristics of quality and quantity. Beyond the RUNX2 , OC , OPN , OST , and RANK proteins expressed in the alveolar bone healing , OPG and RANKL activity showed to be essential for activation of basic multicellular units during the alveolar bone healing.