  Harmonia axyridis ( Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) is a polyphagous insect that is an important biological agent used to control agricultural and forestry pests. The role of functional genes in H. axyridis based on quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR) is increasingly well understood to investigate biology , physiology , feeding behavior and the role of important genes in physiological processes. Quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR) is a powerful and reliable technique to quantify gene expression. Using qRT-PCR , expression levels of target genes are determined based on the levels of internal reference genes; therefore , reference genes need to be stably expressed under specific experimental conditions. However , there have been no studies on the stability of reference genes used in H. axyridis. In this study , we systematically investigated expression profiles of nine candidate reference genes from H. axyridis , including β-actin ( ACTIN); elongation factor 1 α ( EF1A); ribosomal proteins L10 , L18 , L28 , S13 , and S15 ( RPL10 , RPL18 , RPL28 , RPS13 and RPS15); glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( GAPDH); and superoxide dismutase ( SOD). Four analytical methods ( geNorm , BestKeeper , NormFinder , and the ΔCt method) were used to evaluate the suitability of these genes as internal reference genes for three biotic factors ( developmental stage , tissue , and sex) and two abiotic treatments ( temperature and photoperiod). RefFinder , a comprehensive evaluation platform integrating the four analytical methods , was used to rank the overall stability of these reference genes. Among the nine candidate genes , different reference genes were identified as having the most stable expression across biotic and abiotic factors. Genes encoding ribosomal proteins typically had the most stable expression , though EF1A was the most stable across developmental stages and photoperiods. To validate the suitability of these reference genes , heat shock<symptom> protein 90 ( HSP90) was chosen as a target. Significant up-regulation in HSP90 expression level in response to both low and high temperature was observed when using the most suitable reference genes but not when using an arbitrarily selected reference gene. The reference genes identified in this study will provide the basis for future functional genomics research in H. axyridis and will also facilitate the establishment of a standardized qRT-PCR program for other related insects.