  Epilepsy is one of the most stigmatizing disorders. Stigmas and negative attitudes associating epilepsy are due to poor public awareness and knowledge. This study evaluated Saudi public Knowledge , awareness , and attitude towards epilepsy. A cross-sectional study conducted during the period from September 16 , 2014 to January 1st 2015. A 20-item questionnaire adapted from the literature was validated and distributed to 422 adults living in Al-Kharj governorate , and 22 participants were excluded as they have never heard or read about epilepsy. About 94.79 % of participants have heard or read about epilepsy , 63 % of them knew someone with epilepsy , and 49.75 % have witnessed a seizure<symptom> attack. Seventy per cent of subjects thought that epilepsy is a neurological disease and 59 % believed it is a brain disease. Almost 46.5 % selected possession by demons or evil spirits and 51.25 % cited envy or evil eye. More than half of subjects selected the medical treatment and follow-up as the most effective treatment of epilepsy. Rather , 41 % believed in the faith healing. Most of respondents ( 81.5 %) believed that epileptic children could be successful in normal classes. The vast majority agreed with that epileptic woman can get married and have children. Moreover , 65.25 % would allow their offspring to play with epileptic persons and surprisingly , 59 % would let their offspring marrying a person with epilepsy. As much as 82.75 % agreed to work with epileptic persons and 85.5 % would easily become a close friend of them. The equal job opportunity for epileptic and normal persons should be practiced to about 53.75 % of subjects. The predictors of good knowledge , limited misconception , and positive attitudes were female gender , being a relative of an epileptic person , and having high educational level. The public knowledge , awareness of and attitudes toward epilepsy were acceptable with regard to this study. However , the negative attitudes and misconceptions still exist.