  Whilst hypocalcemic complications from vitamin D deficiency are considered rare in high-income countries , they are highly prevalent among Black , Asian and Minority Ethnic ( BAME) group with darker skin. To date , the extent of osteomalacia in such infants and their family members is unknown. Our aim was to investigate clinical , cardiac and bone histomorphometric characteristics , bone matrix mineralization in affected infants and to test family members for biochemical evidence of osteomalacia. Three infants of BAME origin ( aged 5-6 months) presented acutely in early-spring with cardiac arrest , respiratory arrest following seizure<symptom> or severe respiratory distress , with profound hypocalcemia ( serum calcium 1.22-1.96 mmol/L). All infants had dark skin and vitamin D supplementation had not been addressed during child surveillance visits. All three had severely dilated left ventricles ( z-scores + 4.6 to + 6.5) with reduced ejection fraction ( 25-30 %; normal 55-70) , fractional shortening ( 7 to 15 %; normal 29-40) and global hypokinesia , confirming hypocalcemic dilated cardiomyopathy. They all had low serum levels of 25 hydroxyvitamin D ( 25OHD < 15 nmol/L) , and elevated parathyroid hormone ( PTH; 219-482 ng/L) and alkaline phosphatase ( ALP; 802-1123 IU/L) , with undiagnosed rickets on radiographs. One infant died from cardiac arrest. At post-mortem examination , his growth plate showed a widened , irregular zone of hypertrophic chondrocytes. Histomorphometry and backscattered electron microscopy of a trans-iliac bone biopsy sample revealed increased osteoid thickness ( + 262 % of normal) and osteoid volume/bone volume ( + 1573 %) , and extremely low bone mineralization density. Five of the nine tested family members had vitamin D deficiency ( 25OHD < 30 nmol/L) , three had insufficiency ( < 50 nmol/L) and 6/9 members had elevated PTH and ALP levels. The severe , hidden , cardiac and bone pathology described here exposes a failure of public health prevention programs , as complications from vitamin D deficiency are entirely preventable by routine supplementation. The family investigations demonstrate widespread deficiency and undiagnosed osteomalacia in ethnic risk groups and call for protective legislation.