  Adipose-derived stem cells ( ASCs) have been introduced as an alternative to bone<disease> marrow mesenchymal stem cells ( BMSCs) for cell-based therapy. However , different studies comparing ASCs and BMSCs have shown conflicting results. In fact , harvesting ASCs and BMSCs from different individuals might influence the results , making comparison difficult. Therefore , this study aimed to characterize donor-matched ASCs and BMSCs in order to investigate proliferation , differentiation potential and possible effects of donor variation on these mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs). Human bone<disease> marrow and adipose tissue samples were obtained from nine donors aged 8-14. ASCs and BMSCs were isolated and characterized based on expression of surface markers using flow cytometry. The proliferation up to 21 days was investigated. Multi-lineage differentiation was induced using osteogenic , chondrogenic and adipogenic differentiation media. Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP) activity was monitored and collagen type I formation was evaluated by immunofluorescence staining. In vitro multi-potency was studied using tissue-specific stains and lineage-specific gene expression. In addition , the osteogenic lineage was evaluated at protein level. Isolated ASCs and BMSCs from all donors demonstrated morphologic and immunophenotypic characteristics of MSCs , with expression of MSCs markers and negative expression of hematopoietic markers. Unlike BMSCs , ASCs showed high expression of CD49d and low expression of Stro-1. In general , ASCs showed significantly higher proliferation and adipogenic capacity with more lipid vesicle formation and expression of the adipogenesis-related genes than BMSCs. In contrast , BMSCs showed significantly higher osteogenic and chondrogenic capacity compared to ASCs. BMSCs had earlier and higher ALP activity , calcium deposition , and expression of the osteogenesis- and chondrogenesis-related genes and the osteogenesis-related protein osteopontin. Proliferation and differentiation capacity of ASCs and BMSCs varied significantly among the donors. ASCs and BMSCs showed tissue-specific differentiation abilities , but with significant variation between donors. The similarities and differences in the properties of ASCs and BMSCs should be taken into consideration when planning stem cell-based therapy.