  The objectives of South Africa 's electronic health ( eHealth) strategy recognize the value proposition that telemedicine practices hold for rural and urban referrals , but a lack of accepted and formalized scale-up has impeded realization of benefits. While both synchronous and asynchronous teledermatology exist , these remain localized and not scaled-up. Skin pathology is often the first sign of an HIV/AIDS infection , which remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in South Africa. It is essential to replace the current inefficient dermatology referral process with a swift , organized , and efficacious one. The objective of this study is to present an evidenced-based teledermatology scale-up framework ( TDSF) and implementation roadmap ( TDSF-IR). A qualitative method with a design science research process model was used which consisted of 5 phases: ( 1) Awareness , which confirmed the need for an evidence-based TDSF and supporting TDSF-IR; ( 2) Suggestion , where a proposal was delivered on how to develop a TDSF and TDSF-IR; ( 3) Development , where we identified recommended design requirements and used these to identify and critique existing teledermatology or related scale-up frameworks; ( 4) Evaluation and validation , where we assessed outputs of the development phase against the design requirements and validated by confirming the veracity of the TDSF and TDSF-IR ( validation involved 4 key senior teledermatology stakeholders using a questionnaire with a 5-point Likert scale); and ( 5) Conclusion , where validation results were used to finalize and communicate the TDSF and TDSF-IR to users. The study identified 5 TDSF components: eHealth building blocks , eHealth strategic objectives and budget , scale-up continuum periods , scale-up drivers , and scale-up phases. In addition , 36 subcomponents were identified. Each was further characterized and described to enable design of the final evidence-based TDSF. An implementation roadmap ( TDSF-IR) was also prepared as a guide for an implementer with step-by-step instructions for application of the TDSF. For the validation study of the TDSF and supporting TDSF-IR , 4 purposively selected key senior teledermatology management stakeholders were asked if they found it useful as a guide to assist the South African public health system with teledermatology scale-up. The mean ( SD) of Likert-scale rating was 4.0 ( 0.53) where 4 = Agree and 33 of 36 responses were either agree or strongly agree. This study developed a TDSF and supporting roadmap ( TDSF-IR) that are evidence-based. The proposed approach and described tools could be adapted to assist with ensuring scale-up and sustainability for other eHealth practices in other locations.