  Previous work demonstrates that individuals who obtain exemptions from school immunization requirements are geographically clustered , making regional differences in vaccination coverage a significant concern. Even where exemption levels are high , there are still parents that vaccinate. School-level assessments have determined that exemptors are more likely to attend wealthier schools with fewer minorities. Few studies have assessed divergent opinions within the context of a higher-exemption community to examine subtle differences in opinion surrounding vaccinations. Therefore , the objective of this work was to assess attitudes and perceptions towards vaccinations and compare them for exemptors and non-exemptors. We administered surveys to parents in high-exemption ( > 10 %) elementary schools in Arizona during the 2012-13 school year. A total of 404 surveys were completed by parents among schools in Maricopa ( n = 7) and Yavapai ( n = 2) counties. Of these , 35 % ( n = 141) were exemptors and 65 % ( n = 261) were non-exemptors. Exemptors were more likely than non-exemptors to be concerned about serious side-effects ( p < 0.001). They were more likely to report knowing someone who had been diagnosed with a vaccine-preventable disease ( p < 0.001) but less likely to report that this had been a serious illness in that person ( p < 0.001) and they believed it is better for a child to develop immunity through illness than vaccination ( p < 0.001). They were less likely to trust physicians ( p < 0.001) and information about vaccines ( p < 0.001) and were more likely to obtain their health care from a naturopath ( p < 0.001). In summary , exemptors in these Arizona schools do not appear to be exempting their children from vaccinations due to convenience , as has been hypothesized in other settings. Based on the divergent views within high-exemption schools and reported distrust of the medical establishment , target interventions for high-exemption schools are discussed. Additionally , given the lack of effective non-policy based interventions to-date , the negligible declines in personal belief exemption rates , and vaccine preventable disease rate increases in Arizona , especially in high-exemption areas , legislative action in Arizona may also warrant further investigation.