  A Personal Health Record ( PHR) is an electronic record that individuals use to manage and share their health information , e.g. data from their medical records and data collected by apps. However , engagement with their record can be low if people do not find it beneficial to their health , wellbeing or interactions with health and other services. We have explored the beliefs potential users have about a PHR , how it could be made personally relevant , and barriers to its use. A qualitative design comprising eight focus groups , each with 6-8 participants. Groups included adults with long-term health conditions , young people , physically active adults , data experts , and members of the voluntary sector. Each group lasted 60-90 min , was audio recorded and transcribed verbatim. We analysed the data using thematic analysis to address the question `` What are people 's beliefs about making a Personal Health Record have relevance and impact? '' We found four themes. Making it work for me is about how to encourage individuals to actively engage with their PHR. I control my information is about individuals deciding what to share and who to share it with. My concerns is about individuals ' concerns about information security and if and how their information will be acted upon. Potential impact shows the potential benefits of a PHR such as increasing self-efficacy , uptake of health-protective behaviours , and professionals taking a more holistic approach to providing care and facilitating behaviour change. Our research shows the functionality that a PHR requires in order for people to engage with it. Interactive functions and integration with lifestyle and health apps are particularly important. A PHR could increase the effectiveness of behaviour change apps by specifying evidence-based behaviour change techniques that apps should incorporate. A PHR has the potential to increase health-protective behaviours and facilitate a more person-driven health and social care system. It could support patients to take responsibility for self-managing their health and treatment regimens , as well as helping patients to play a more active role when care transfers across boundaries of responsibility.