  The aim of the present study was to investigate the therapeutic effects of carbamyl erythropoietin ( CEPO) and safflor yellow ( SY) in the treatment of rats with diabetic retinopathy ( DR) as well as exploring the mechanism of action. Male SD rats were used to establish a diabetes model and streptozotocin-induced retinopathy was also performed in rats. A total of 126 rats with DR were obtained , and model rats were randomly divided into the model ( n = 42) , experimental ( n = 42) and control ( n = 42) groups. The rats in the model group were injected with saline , the rats in the experimental group were treated with CEPO , and the rats in the control group were treated with SY. After treatment for 2 weeks , the retinas were harvested for quantitative analysis of the mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis-promoting and- inhibiting molecules , apoptosis-promoting and- inhibiting molecules , and oxidative stress pathway-related factors by Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR ( RT-qPCR). No significant differences in expression levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α ( HIF-1α) , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF) , angiopoietin ( Ang-1) , tissue kallikrein ( TKLK) and pigment epithelium-derived factor ( PEDF) were observed between the experimental and model groups ( P > 0.05). The expression levels of apoptosis-promoting molecules Bcl-2 related X protein ( Bax) and cysteine aspartate specific protease ( caspase-3) mRNA in the retina of the experimental group was significantly lower than those in the control group ( P < 0.05). The expression levels of Bcl-2 and survivin mRNA were significantly higher in the experimental group than in the control group ( P < 0.05). The expression levels of the oxidative stress pathway nuclear factor erythroid 2 ( NFE2)- related factor 2 ( Nrf2) , heme oxygenase-1 ( HO-1) and NAD ( P) H quinone dehydrogenase 1 ( NQO1) mRNA were significantly higher in the experimental group than in the control group. Therefore , the therapeutic effects of CEPO in treating DR are better than those of SY. As a result , CEPO may inhibit apoptosis and oxidative stress damage of retinal tissue cells in DR rats without affecting angiogenesis.