  Websites on which users can rate their physician are becoming increasingly popular , but little is known about the website quality , the information content , and the tools they offer users to assess physicians. This study assesses these aspects on physician-rating websites in German- and English-speaking countries. The objective of this study was to collect information on websites with a physician rating or review tool in 12 countries in terms of metadata , website quality ( transparency , privacy and freedom of speech of physicians and patients , check mechanisms for appropriateness and accuracy of reviews , and ease of page navigation) , professional information about the physician , rating scales and tools , as well as traffic rank. A systematic Web search based on a set of predefined keywords was conducted on Google , Bing , and Yahoo in August 2016. A final sample of 143 physician-rating websites was analyzed and coded for metadata , quality , information content , and the physician-rating tools. The majority of websites were registered in the United States ( 40/143) or Germany ( 25/143). The vast majority were commercially owned ( 120/143 , 83.9 %) , and 69.9 % ( 100/143) displayed some form of physician advertisement. Overall , information content ( mean 9.95/ 25) as well as quality were low ( mean 18.67/ 47). Websites registered in the United Kingdom obtained the highest quality scores ( mean 26.50/ 47) , followed by Australian websites ( mean 21.50/ 47). In terms of rating tools , physician-rating websites were most frequently asking users to score overall performance , punctuality , or wait time in practice. This study evidences that websites that provide physician rating should improve and communicate their quality standards , especially in terms of physician and user protection , as well as transparency. In addition , given that quality standards on physician-rating websites are low overall , the development of transparent guidelines is required. Furthermore , attention should be paid to the financial goals that the majority of physician-rating websites , especially the ones that are commercially owned , pursue.