  Stem cell differentiation can be regulated by biophysical cues such as nanotopography. It involves sensing and integration of these biophysical cues into their transcriptome with a mechanism that is yet to be discovered. In addition to the cytoskeletal and focal adhesion remodeling , nanotopography has also been shown to modulate nucleus morphology. Here , we studied the effect of nanotopography on the temporal changes in nuclei of human embryonic stem cells ( hESCs) and human mesenchymal stem cells ( hMSCs). Using a high throughput Multi-architecture ( MARC) chip analysis , the circularity of the stem cell nuclei changed significantly on different patterns. Human ESCs and MSCs showed different temporal changes in nucleus morphology , lamin A/C expression and histone methylation during topography-induced neuronal differentiation. In hESCs , the expression of nuclear matrix protein , lamin A/C during neuronal differentiation of hESCs on PDMS samples were weakly detected in the first 7 days of differentiation. The histone 3 trimethylation on Lysine 9 ( H3K9me3) decreased after differentiation initiated and showed temporal changes in their expression and organization during neuronal differentiation. In hMSCs , the expression of lamin A/C was significantly increased after the first 24 h of cell culture. The quantitative analysis of histone methylation also showed a significant increase in hMSCs histone methylation on 250 nm anisotropic nanogratings within the first 24 h of seeding. This reiterates the importance of cell-substrate sensing within the first 24 h for adult stem cells. The lamin A/C expression and histone methylation shows a correlation of epigenetic changes in early events of differentiation , giving an insight on how extracellular nanotopographical cues are transduced into nuclear biochemical signals. Collectively , these results provide more understanding into the nuclear regulation of the mechanotransduction of nanotopographical cues in stem cell differentiation.