  None After obtaining Institutional Review Board and Infection Control Committee approvals , we implemented an institution-wide FMTP for patients diagnosed with CDI. Prospective tracking of all patients receiving FMT between July 1 , 2015 , and February 1 , 2017 , was conducted using REDCap ™ electronic data capture system. According to the FMTP , indications for FMT included ( a) three or more CDI recurrences , ( b) two or more hospital admissions with severe CDI , or ( c) first episode of complicated CDI ( CCDI). Risk factors for initial infection and for treatment failure were assessed. Patients were followed for at least 3 months to monitor for cure/failure , relapse , and side effects. Frozen 250 mL FMT samples were acquired from OpenBiome ( Somerville , MA , USA). After 4 h of thawing , the liquid suspension was applied using colonoscopy , beginning with terminal ileum and proceeding distally toward mid-transverse colon. Monitored clinical parameters included disease severity ( Hines VA CDI Severity Score or HVCSS) , concomitant medications , number of FMT treatments , non-FMT therapies , cure rates , and mortality. Descriptive statistics were utilized to outline the study results. A total of 35 patients ( mean age 58.5 years , 69 % female) were analyzed , with FMT-attributable primary cure achieved in 30/35 ( 86 %) cases. Within this subgroup , 2/30 ( 6.7 %) patients recurred and were subsequently cured with long-term oral vancomycin. Among five primary FMT failures ( 14 % total sample) , 3 ( 60 %) achieved medical cure with long-term oral vancomycin therapy and 2 ( 40 %) required colectomy. For the seven patients who either failed FMT or recurred , long-term vancomycin therapy was curative in all but two cases. For patients with severe CDI ( HVCSS ≥ 3) , primary and overall cure rates were 6/10 ( 60 %) and 8/10 ( 80 %) , respectively. Patients with CCDI ( This pilot study supports the efficacy and safety of FMT administration for CDI in the setting of a community-based university hospital. Following FMTP implementation , primary ( 86 %) and overall ( 94 %) nonsurgical cure rates were similar to those reported in other studies. The potential role of opioids as a modulator of CDI warrants further clinical investigation.