  With the increasing burden of mental illness globally , it is becoming common for hospitalised patients with chronic medical conditions to have a comorbidity of mental illness. This combination could prolong length of stay ( LOS) of this patient cohort. We conducted an investigation in Tasmania , Australian hospitals to characterise this cohort and assess if co-morbidity of mental illness is a distinguishing factor that generates LOS variation across different chronic medical conditions. The retrospective study analysed 16,898 admissions of patients with a primary diagnosis of one of five chronic medical conditions: lung or colorectal cancer , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD) , type II diabetes , ischaemic heart disease ( IHD) and stroke. Data were from July 2010 to June 2015 , across four hospitals that collectively cover 95 % of public hospital admissions in Tasmania , Australia. Descriptive statistics were used to compare characteristics of patients between the scenarios of with and without co-morbidity of mental illness. We used negative binomial regression models to assess whether co-morbidity of mental illness , along with its sub-types , after adjustment for potential confounding variables , associated with LOS variation in patients of each medical condition. Based on the adjusted LOS variation , we estimated differences in bed days ' use between patients with and without comorbidity of mental illness. Patients with co-morbidity of mental illness were significantly younger in comparison to patients without mental illness. With each medical condition , patients with comorbidity of mental illness had incurred higher bed days ' use than for those without mental illness. In cancer and stroke cohorts , co-morbidity of mental illness unfavourably affected the LOS variation by as high as 97 % ( CI: 49.9 % -159 %) and 109 % ( 78 % -146 %) , respectively. Though mental and behavioural disorders due to psychoactive substances was a dominant sub-type of mental illness across the medical conditions , it contributed significant unfavourable LOS variation only in the stroke patients i.e. 36.3 % ( CI: 16.2 % -59.9 %). Mental illness consistently produced unfavourable LOS variation. Upskilling of healthcare teams and greater reporting and analysis of LOS variation for this patient cohort , and the sub-cohorts within it , are necessary to provide improved medical care and achieve system efficiencies.