  This study was performed to assess potential improvements in clinical outcomes when applying recent advanced hip arthroplasty surgical techniques and understand the potential relationship between bone mineral density ( BMD) and surgical outcomes. Among 37 cases of periprosthetic femoral fractures after hip arthroplasty treated between March 2014 and September 2016 , all included a follow-up of at least one year and were included in this study. Outcomes were evaluated using the Beals and Tower 's criteria. BMD was examined in 27 of 37 cases and the relationship between osteoporosis and treatment outcomes was analyzed. Advanced hip arthroplasty surgical approaches varied depending on the fracture type: i) open reduction with wiring for Vancouver A , ii) open reduction with double plate fixation for Vancouver B1 , iii) revision THA with long stem for Vancouver B1-Nonunion , B2 and B3 , and iv) open reduction with double plate fixation for Vancouver C. When assessed using the Beals and Tower 's criteria , 33 out of 37 ( 89.2 %) patients were excellent and 4 ( 10.8 %) were poor. These outcomes were an improvement compared with series I ( 81.8 %). When analyzed according to the Vancouver classification , patients with type A ( n = 8) , type B1 ( n = 16) , and type B2 ( n = 2) were all excellent , the patients with type B3 were excellent ( n = 1) and poor ( n = 1) , and the patients with type C were excellent ( n = 6) and poor ( n = 3). The mean BMD was -2.6 ( T-score) in 27 of 37 cases and -4.4 in 4 cases with poor prognosis. Osteoporosis was statistically correlated to those classified as poor by Beals and Tower. The results of the analysis suggest that applying new surgical hip arthroplasty treatment approaches leads to improved outcomes compared with the author 's previous study. When treating periprosthetic femoral fractures following total hip arthroplasty , an appropriate internal fixation method should be selected , at least in part based on the Vancouver classification. In addition , osteoporosis may be a major prognostic factor for the outcomes of surgical treatment.