  Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder that primarily affects the convexities of the central face. Depending on the severity and type of rosacea , physicians may prescribe interventions such as behavioral changes , laser and intense pulsed light , as well as various pharmacologic therapies , including topical agents. The impact of side effects associated with topical treatments for rosacea on patient preferences and treatment satisfaction is not well-documented. To assess patients ' concerns , treatment satisfaction , and quality of life ( QOL) associated with topical treatments for rosacea. Patients were identified for participation in a one-time survey from electronic medical records between 2010 and 2015 from the largest privately held and physician-run multispecialty group practice in Massachusetts. Patients were eligible to participate in the survey if they were aged ≥ 18 years and had ≥ 1 diagnoses of rosacea , ≥ 1 prescriptions for topical metronidazole gel/cream or azelaic acid gel , ≥ 6 months of follow-up , and an active treatment record in 2014. Treatment-related concerns and their importance were assessed using a questionnaire developed for this study. Treatment satisfaction and QOL were evaluated using the Treatment Satisfaction with Medicines Questionnaire ( SATMED-Q) and the Dermatology Life Quality Index ( DLQI) , respectively. Of the 900 eligible patients surveyed , 216 ( 24 %) responded. Among the responders , 122 reported currently using a topical rosacea treatment. The most common treatment-related concerns were efficacy ( 64.8 %) , skin dryness ( 18.4 %) , unspecified side effects ( 9.6 %) , burning sensation ( 8.8 %) , and application technique ( 8.0 %). The treatment-related concerns that were assessed as most important by responders included efficacy ( mean score 9.1 , on a 10-point scale) , soreness<symptom> ( 7.6) , itching ( 7.5) , burning ( 7.4) , and dryness ( 7.3). Averaged across all the responders , treatment satisfaction was rated as neutral ( mean SATMED-Q score , 56.5) , whereas the impact of rosacea on QOL was minimal ( mean DLQI score , 2.7). Increasing dryness was significantly associated with worsening QOL , and trends toward significance were observed for increasing soreness<symptom> , itching , and burning sensations. The survey results suggest a need for novel topical therapies for patients with rosacea that have increased efficacy and tolerability , which may improve patient satisfaction and QOL.