  Avian keratin disorder ( AKD) is an epizootic of debilitating beak deformities , first documented in black-capped chickadees ( Poecile atricapillus) in Alaska during the late 1990s. Similar deformities have now been recorded in dozens of species of birds across multiple continents. Despite this , the etiology of AKD has remained elusive , making it difficult to assess the impacts of this disease on wild populations. We previously identified an association between infection with a novel picornavirus , Poecivirus , and AKD in a small cohort of black-capped chickadees. To test if the association between Poecivirus and AKD holds in a larger study population , we used targeted PCR followed by Sanger sequencing to screen 124 symptomatic and asymptomatic black-capped chickadees for Poecivirus infection. We further compared the efficacy of multiple non-terminal field sampling methods ( buccal swabs , cloacal swabs , fecal samples , and blood samples) for Poecivirus screening. Finally , we used both in situ hybridization and a strand-specific expression assay to localize Poecivirus to beak tissue of AKD-positive individuals and to determine if virus is actively replicating in beak tissue. Poecivirus was detected in 28/28 ( 100 %) individuals with AKD , but only 9/96 ( 9.4 %) asymptomatic individuals with apparently normal beaks ( p < 0.0001). We found that cloacal swabs are the most sensitive of these sample types for detecting Poecivirus in birds with AKD , but that buccal swabs should be combined with cloacal swabs in evaluating the infection status of asymptomatic birds. Finally , we used both in situ hybridization and a strand-specific expression assay to localize Poecivirus to beak tissue of AKD-positive individuals and to provide evidence of active viral replication. The data presented here show a strong , statistically significant relationship between Poecivirus infection and AKD , and provide evidence that Poecivirus is indeed an avian virus , infecting and actively replicating in beak tissue of AKD-affected BCCH. Taken together , these data corroborate and extend the evidence for a potential causal association between Poecivirus and AKD in the black-capped chickadee. Poecivirus continues to warrant further investigation as a candidate agent of AKD.