  Cardiac toxicity after definitive chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer is a critical issue. To reduce irradiation doses to organs at risk , individual internal margins need to be identified and minimized. The purpose of this study was to quantify esophageal motion using fiducial makers based on four-dimensional computed tomography , and to evaluate the inter-CBCT session marker displacement using breath-hold. Sixteen patients with early stage esophageal cancer , who received endoscopy-guided metallic marker placement for treatment planning , were included; there were 35 markers in total , with 9 , 15 , and 11 markers in the upper thoracic , middle thoracic , and lower thoracic/esophagogastric junction regions , respectively. We defined fiducial marker motion as motion of the centroidal point of the markers. Respiratory esophageal motion during free-breathing was defined as the amplitude of individual marker motion between the consecutive breathing and end-expiration phases , derived from four-dimensional computed tomography. The inter-CBCT session marker displacement using breath-hold was defined as the amplitudes of marker motion between the first and each cone beam computed tomography image. Marker motion was analyzed in the three regions ( upper thoracic , middle thoracic , and lower thoracic/esophagogastric junction) and in three orthogonal directions ( right-left; anterior-posterior; and superior-inferior). Respiratory esophageal motion during free-breathing resulted in median absolute maximum amplitudes ( interquartile range) , in right-left , anterior-posterior , and superior-inferior directions , of 1.7 ( 1.4) mm , 2.0 ( 1.5) mm , and 3.6 ( 4.1) mm , respectively , in the upper thoracic region , 0.8 ( 1.1) mm , 1.4 ( 1.2) mm , and 4.8 ( 3.6) mm , respectively , in the middle thoracic region , and 1.8 ( 0.8) mm , 1.9 ( 2.0) mm , and 8.0 ( 4.5) mm , respectively , in the lower thoracic/esophagogastric region. The inter-CBCT session marker displacement using breath-hold resulted in median absolute maximum amplitudes ( interquartile range) , in right-left , anterior-posterior , and superior-inferior directions , of 1.3 ( 1.0) mm , 1.1 ( 0.7) mm , and 3.3 ( 1.8) mm , respectively , in the upper thoracic region , 0.7 ( 0.7) mm , 1.1 ( 0.4) mm , and 3.4 ( 1.4) mm , respectively , in the middle thoracic region , and 2.0 ( 0.8) mm , 2.6 ( 2.2) mm , and 3.5 ( 1.8) mm , respectively , in the lower thoracic/esophagogastric region. During free-breathing , esophageal motion in the superior-inferior direction in all sites was large , compared to the other directions , and amplitudes showed substantial inter-individual variability. The breath-hold technique is feasible for minimizing esophageal displacement during radiotherapy in patients with esophageal cancer.