  Doxorubicin ( DOX) , an anthracycline therapeutic , is widely used to treat a variety of cancer types and known to induce cardiomyopathy in a time and dose-dependent manner. Postmenopausal and hypertensive females are two high-risk groups for developing adverse effects following DOX treatment. This may suggest that endogenous reproductive hormones can in part suppress DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Here , we investigated if the endogenous fluctuations in 17β-estradiol ( E2) and progesterone ( P4) can in part suppress DOX-induced cardiomyopathy in SST-2 tumor-bearing spontaneously hypersensitive rats ( SHRs) and evaluate if exogenous administration of E2 and P4 can suppress DOX-induced cardiotoxicity in tumor-bearing ovariectomized SHRs ( ovaSHRs). Vaginal cytology was performed on all animals to identify the stage of the estrous cycle. Estrous-staged SHRs received a single injection of saline , DOX , dexrazoxane ( DRZ) , or DOX combined with DRZ. OvaSHRs were implanted with time-releasing pellets that contained a carrier matrix ( control) , E2 , P4 , Tamoxifen ( Tam) , and combinations of E2 with P4 and Tam. Hormone pellet-implanted ovaSHRs received a single injection of saline or DOX. Cardiac troponin I ( cTnI) , E2 , and P4 serum concentrations were measured before and after treatment in all animals. Cardiac damage and function were further assessed by echocardiography and histopathology. Weight , tumor size , and uterine width were measured for all animals. In SHRs , estrous-staged DOX treatment altered acute estrous cycling that ultimately resulted in prolonged diestrus. Twelve days after DOX administration , all SHRs had comparable endogenous circulating E2. Thirteen days after DOX treatment , SHRs treated during proestrus had decreased cardiac output and increased cTnI as compared to animals treated during estrus and diestrus. DOX-induced tumor reduction was not affected by estrous-staged treatments. In ovaSHRs , exogenous administration of E2 suppressed DOX-induced cardiotoxicity , while P4-implanted ovaSHRs were partly resistant. However , ovaSHRs treated with E2 and P4 did not have cardioprotection against DOX-induced damage. This study demonstrates that estrous-staged treatments can alter the extent of cardiac damage caused by DOX in female SHRs. The study also supports that exogenous E2 can suppress DOX-induced myocardial damage in ovaSHRs.