  Several studies have demonstrated harm associated with using erythropoiesis-stimulating agents ( ESA) to achieve higher hemoglobin ( Hb) levels. Subsequently , more conservative use of ESAs has changed anemia<symptom> therapy in patients with chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom>. The objectives were to identify transfusion rates in hemodialysis ( HD) patients during the first year of therapy , to identify factors associated with the probability of transfusion , describe reasons for the transfusions , and identify the Hb values associated with each transfusion. An exploratory objective was to describe the age of red blood cell transfusions. This was a multicenter prospective observational cohort study. There were 12 study sites in 5 Canadian provinces. The study was performed from 2012 to 2014. The study patients were adult incident chronic HD patients in these centers. Patients with acute kidney injury , peritoneal dialysis , and planned transfer to satellite units were excluded. Patients had to receive at least 1 month of chronic HD to be eligible. Data for 3 months prior to HD were obtained by retrospective chart review. Prospectively , charts were reviewed monthly for 12 months for data abstraction. There were 314 patients enrolled and 79.9 % completed 12 month follow-up. Ninety-four ( 29.9 %) patients received at least 1 unit of blood. During the first 90 days , the transfusion episode rate was 148.4 per 100 patient-years compared with 62.6 per 100 patient-years post 90 days. The most frequent indication was a low Hb value ( 92 %) with gastrointestinal bleeding , surgical blood<symptom> loss<symptom> , and fatigue<symptom> accounting for 9.9 % , 8.6 % , and 4.5 % , respectively. Some patients had > 1 indication. The mean Hb values prior to transfusion episodes ranged from 75.3 to 78.6 g/L. Cox regression analysis on time to first transfusion and time to first hospitalization/death both showed an association with inpatient initiation of HD. Some 37.5 % initiated HD as an inpatient and differed from those starting as an outpatient. They had less predialysis care and laboratory data suggested more inflammation<symptom>. The mean and median ages of the blood units transfused were 24.9 ( SD = 10.0) and 23 days ( interquartile range = 17-33). This work reported the blood transfusion rate in incident HD patients in Canada during a period associated with conservative ESA prescription. The major indication for transfusion was a low Hb rather than clinical symptoms. Initiation of HD as an inpatient was independently associated with the probability of receiving a blood transfusion. These findings require further investigation.