  In Burkina Faso , stunting affects children and is a public health problem. We studied the association between stunting and child 's neuro-psychological outcomes at 6-8 years of age in rural Burkina Faso using the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children , 2nd edition ( KABC-II) , the Children 's Category Test 1 ( CCT-1) and the Test of Variable of Attention ( TOVA). We re-enrolled children of a previously community-based Exclusive breastfeeding trial in Burkina Faso. We assessed a total of 532 children aged 6-8 years using KABC-II for memory ( Atlantis and Number Recall subtests) , spatial abilities ( Conceptual Thinking , Face Recognition and Triangle subtests) , reasoning ( Block Counting subtest) , general cognition and CCT-1 for cognitive flexibility. A total 513 children were assessed using the TOVA to measure attention and inhibition. We calculated the Cohen 's d to examine the effect size and conducted a linear regression to examine the association. The proportion of stunting was 15.6 % ( 83/532). Stunted children performed significantly poorer for memory ( Atlantis and Number Recall) , spatial abilities ( Conceptual Thinking , Face Recognition and Triangle) , general cognition and attention with a small effect size compared to non-stunted children. Children who were exposed scored significantly higher errors for cognitive flexibility and inhibition with a small effect size compared to unexposed children. At standardized and unstandardized multivariable regression analysis , stunted children performed significantly poorer for Atlantis ( p = 0.001) , Number Recall ( p = 0.02) , Conceptual Thinking ( p = 0.01) , Triangle ( p = 0.001) , general cognition ( p ≤ 0.0001) and attention ( p = 0.04) compared to non-stunted children. Children who were exposed scored significantly higher errors for cognitive flexibility ( p = 0.02) and for inhibition ( p = 0.02) compared to unexposed children. We adjusted all the results for age , schooling , sex , playing , father education , mother employment and promotion of previous exclusive breastfeeding. Stunting is associated with poorer neuro-psychological outcomes among children in rural Burkina Faso. Initiatives related to prevention need to be established and advice on nutrition need to be provided.