  New mobile health ( mHealth) software apps are emerging and are providing the foundation to radically transform the practice and reach of medical research and care. For this study we collaborated with Quit Genius , a cognitive behavioral therapy ( CBT) based mHealth app that helps users quit smoking , to explore the effective design of a digital mHealth app; one that delivers important benefits to its users and helps them change their behaviors for a healthier lifestyle. The specific aims of this study were to ( 1) explore the key role of CBT program progress , ( 2) examine the gamification design app elements that deliver significant benefits ( ie , empowerment , well-being , inspiration) to users , ( 3) explore the effectiveness of these app elements to help users quit smoking or reduce the number of cigarettes smoked , and ( 4) identify and describe any potential drivers and hindrances arising from the app design elements. We developed an online survey and sent an email invitation to 4144 individuals , who had previously or were at the time using the Quit Genius mHealth app , to encourage participation in the study. We matched the online survey data with objective app usage data of the study participants. A dataset of 190 completed responses was used. At the time of the survey , respondents had completed an average of 60 % of the CBT program in the Quit Genius mHealth app. Of the respondents , 36.3 % ( 69/190) noted to have quit smoking successfully after using the Quit Genius app. As for those who remained smokers after using the app ( N = 121) , the number of cigarettes smoked per day was significantly reduced by 59.6 %. The ability of the app to enhance users ' hedonic well-being and psychologically empower them in their daily lives was identified as being key in helping users quit smoking. Specifically , the results show that users whose well-being was enhanced through the app were 1.72 times more likely to quit smoking successfully. Moreover , a one-unit increase on a 7-point Likert scale in the app 's ability to empower smokers in their daily lives led to a reduction of cigarettes smoked per day of 53 %. The app 's inspiration to users , however , was negatively associated with quitting success and the reduction in cigarette smoked per day. The findings offer important insights for the effective design of digital mHealth apps. Specifically , we find that perceived psychological empowerment and enhanced hedonic well-being from the mobile solution may be a more impactful way to support the effectiveness of mobile cognitive behavioral therapy for smoking cessation than eliciting strong inspiration.