  The breast cancer microenvironment promotes tumor vascularization through the complex interactions involving tumor-associated fibroblasts ( TAFs). Emerging data indicate that TAFs increase production and signaling by TGF-β cytokines , while the role of TGF-β signaling in the regulation of tumor blood vessels is not fully understood. The current study presents evidence that TAFs enhance the organization of tumor blood capillaries , and TGF-β signaling plays an important role in this response. Tumor vascularization was studied in xenograft models of breast carcinoma cells , alone and in combination with fibroblasts. TGF-β signaling in breast cancer cells was modulated by expression of kinase-inactive TGFBR1-K232R ( dnTGFBR1) or constitutive-active TGFBR1-T204D ( caTGFBR1) receptor mutants. The architecture of tumor blood capillaries was assessed by immune-histochemical analysis of endothelium and pericytes. The role of TGF-β-Smad signaling in fibronectin expression was examined using adenoviral transduction of signaling components. Our studies revealed that TAFs significantly increase the lumen size of blood microvessels. Inactivation of TGF-β signaling in tumor cells by dnTGFBR1 reduced the microvessel density and lumen sizes , decreasing tumor growth. In contrast , caTGFBR1-tumors exhibited greater vessel density and lumen sizes. Tumors with inactive dnTGFBR1 showed lower amounts of TAFs , while caTGFBR1 increased amounts of TAFs compared to the control. Inspection of pericytes and endothelial cells in tumor vasculature revealed that TAFs enhanced vessel coverage by pericytes , vascular cells supporting capillaries. This effect was impaired in dnTGFBR1-tumors , whereas active caTGFBR1 enhanced the association of pericytes with endothelium. Accordingly , dnTGFBR1-tumors exhibited the presence of hemorrhages<symptom> , a sign of fragile blood vessels. Biochemical analysis showed that TGFBR1-SMAD signaling up-regulates fibronectin , a prominent regulator of endothelium-pericyte interactions. The current study indicates that tumor-fibroblast crosstalk enhances tumor vascularization by increasing the pericyte-endothelium association via a mechanism involving the TGFβ-fibronectin axis. The tumor-fibroblast model represents a useful system for dissecting the complex interactions governing tumor angiogenesis and developing new approaches to therapeutic targeting tumor vasculature.