  The improvement of clotting factor concentrates ( CFCs) has undergone an impressive boost during the last six years. Since 2010 , several new recombinant factor ( rF) VIII/IX concentrates entered phase I/II/III clinical trials. The improvements are related to the culture of human embryonic kidney ( HEK) cells , post-translational glycosylation , PEGylation , and co-expression of the fragment crystallizable ( Fc) region of immunoglobulin ( Ig) G1 or albumin genes in the manufacturing procedures. The extended half-life ( EHL) CFCs allow an increase of the interval between bolus administrations during prophylaxis , a very important advantage for patients with difficulties in venous access. Although the inhibitor risk has not been fully established , phase III studies have provided standard prophylaxis protocols , which , compared with on-demand treatment , have achieved very low annualized bleeding rates ( ABRs). The key pharmacokinetics ( PK) parameter to tailor patient therapy is clearance , which is more reliable than the half-life of CFCs; the clearance considers the decay rate of the drug concentration-time profile , while the half-life considers only the half concentration of the drug at a given time. To tailor the prophylaxis of hemophilia patients in real-life , we propose two formulae ( expressed in terms of the clearance , trough and dose interval between prophylaxis) , respectively based on the one- and two-compartmental models ( CMs) , for the prediction of the optimal single dose of EHL CFCs. Once the data from the time decay of the CFCs are fitted by the one- or two-CMs after an individual PK analysis , such formulae provide to the treater the optimal trade-off among trough and time-intervals between boluses. In this way , a sufficiently long time-interval between bolus administration could be guaranteed for a wider class of patients , with a preassigned level of the trough. Finally , a PK approach using repeated dosing is discussed , and some examples with new EHL CFCs are shown.