  Type II diabetes-induced ischemic injuries are known to lead to the rapid degeneration of the kidneys as a result of chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom>. Chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom> is a condition , which typically manifests with symptoms including cardiovascular system and left ventricular hypertrophy , atherosclerosis as well as arterial and aortic stiffness. Resveratrol is a multifunctional compound that has been reported to produce beneficial outcomes for patients with type-II diabetes due to prevention of oxidative stress and apoptosis. However , the beneficial effects of resveratrol in chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom> and the underlying mechanisms have remained to be fully elucidated. The present study investigated the therapeutic effects of resveratrol in mice with chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom> induced by type-II diabetes and assessed the mechanism of action. Oxidative stress , apoptosis and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK) in the renal cells of the model mice were assessed. Changes in inflammatory factors renal cells from experimental mice as well as insulin resistance were also analyzed. Morphological changes and immunocytes in renal cells were determined by immunostaining. The results demonstrated that resveratrol treatment decreased the apoptotic rate of renal cells from experimental mice. Oxidative stress also improved in renal cells , as indicated by inhibition of superoxide dismutase and reduced glutathione and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal levels. In addition , insulin resistance was improved after an 8-week treatment with resveratrol. Inflammatory factors were decreased and factors promoting kidney function were increased after resveratrol treatment. Furthermore , morphological changes were observed to be ameliorated , indicating the therapeutic efficacy of resveratrol. In addition , immunocyte precipitation in renal cells was markedly decreased in resveratrol-treated mice. Importantly , the AMPK signaling pathway was found to be involved in the beneficial effect of resveratrol on the model mice. In conclusion , the present study suggested that resveratrol may be an ideal agent for the treatment of chronic renal<symptom> failure<symptom> induced by type-II diabetes through regulation of the AMPK signaling pathway , which should be further investigated in clinical trials.