  Recent developments in sequencing technologies make it possible to obtain genome sequences from a large number of isolates in a very short time. Bayesian phylogenetic approaches can take advantage of these data by simultaneously inferring the phylogenetic tree , evolutionary timescale , and demographic parameters ( such as population growth rates) , while naturally integrating uncertainty in all parameters. Despite their desirable properties , Bayesian approaches can be computationally intensive , hindering their use for outbreak investigations involving genome data for a large numbers of pathogen isolates. An alternative to using full Bayesian inference is to use a hybrid approach , where the phylogenetic tree and evolutionary timescale are estimated first using maximum likelihood. Under this hybrid approach , demographic parameters are inferred from estimated trees instead of the sequence data , using maximum likelihood , Bayesian inference , or approximate Bayesian computation. This can vastly reduce the computational burden , but has the disadvantage of ignoring the uncertainty in the phylogenetic tree and evolutionary timescale. We compared the performance of a fully Bayesian and a hybrid method by analysing six whole-genome SNP data sets from a range of bacteria and simulations. The estimates from the two methods were very similar , suggesting that the hybrid method is a valid alternative for very large datasets. However , we also found that congruence between these methods is contingent on the presence of strong temporal structure in the data ( i.e. clocklike behaviour) , which is typically verified using a date-randomisation test in a Bayesian framework. To reduce the computational burden of this Bayesian test we implemented a date-randomisation test using a rapid maximum likelihood method , which has similar performance to its Bayesian counterpart. Hybrid approaches can produce reliable inferences of evolutionary timescales and phylodynamic parameters in a fraction of the time required for fully Bayesian analyses. As such , they are a valuable alternative in outbreak studies involving a large number of isolates.