  The Nucleotide binding and oligomerization domain-like receptorfamily pyrin domain-containing 3 ( NLRP3)- inflammasome plays an important role in various diseases , including a variety of kidney diseases. Naringin exhibits anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidation effects among others , but its specific mechanisms are not clear. We investigated the expression of the NLRP3-inflammasome under high-glucose conditions , assessed the effects of naringin on that process , and further elucidated the role of naringin in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease ( DKD). To assess the therapeutic potential of naringin and the mechanisms involved , we cultured rat glomerular mesangial cells and grouped them according to different glucose concentrations , different action times , different concentrations of MCC950 , and different concentrations of naringin.The cell proliferation was measured by MTT assay. The expression of Interleukin-1β ( IL-1β) and Interleukin18 ( IL-18) in the cell supernatant were detected by ELISA. The expression and activity of NLPR3 , apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase recruitment domain ( ASC) and Caspase-1 were detected by Western Blot. The expressions of NLRP3 , ASC , caspase-1 , IL-1β , and IL-18 in rat glomerular mesangial cells were significantly higher in the high glucose ( HG) group than in the control normal glucose ( NG) group and exhibited time-dependence activity. The expression levels of NLRP3 , caspase-1 , IL-1β , and IL-18 in different treatment groups were significantly lower compared with the HG group after 48 h of MCC950 pre-treatment ( p < 0.05). Pre-treatment with naringin produced the same results. Naringin also inhibited the proliferation of cells. The NLRP3-inflammasome potentially plays a role in the process of activation and inflammation<symptom> of glomerular mesangial cells as induced by high-glucose conditions. Naringin inhibited the proliferation of cells that were induced by high glucose. Further , it reduced the expression of inflammatory factors that are mediated by NLRP3 through the NLRP3-caspase-1-IL-1β/ IL-18 signaling pathway , which makes naringin a potentially novel treatment for DKD disease.