  Excessive drinking among university students is a global challenge , leading to significant health risks. However , heavy drinking among students is widely accepted and socially normalized. Mobile phone interventions have attempted to reach students who engage in excessive drinking. A growing number of studies suggest that text message-based interventions could potentially reach many students and , if effective , such an intervention might help reduce heavy drinking in the student community. The objective of this study was to test the effectiveness of a behavior change theory-based 6-week text message intervention among university students. This study was a two-arm , randomized controlled trial with an intervention group receiving a 6-week text message intervention and a control group that was referred to treatment as usual at the local student health care center. Outcome measures were collected at baseline and at 3 months after the initial invitation to participate in the intervention. The primary outcome was total weekly alcohol consumption. Secondary outcomes were frequency of heavy episodic drinking , highest estimated blood alcohol concentration , and number of negative consequences attributable to excessive drinking. A total of 896 students were randomized to either the intervention or control group. The primary outcome analysis included 92.0 % of the participants in the intervention group and 90.1 % of the control group. At follow-up , total weekly alcohol consumption decreased in both groups , but no significant between-group difference was seen. Data on the secondary outcomes included 49.1 % of the participants in the intervention group and 41.3 % of the control group. No significant between-group difference was seen for any of the secondary outcomes. The present study was under-powered , which could partly explain the lack of significance. However , the intervention , although theory-based , needs to be re-assessed and refined to better support the target group. Apart from establishing which content forms an effective intervention , the optimal length of an alcohol intervention targeting students also needs to be addressed in future studies. International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number ISRCTN95054707; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN95054707 ( Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/70Ax4vXhd).