  Cell therapy for the treatment of intervertebral disc degeneration ( IDD) faces serious barriers since tissue-specific adult cells such as nucleus pulposus cells ( NPCs) have limited proliferative ability and poor regenerative potential; in addition , it is difficult for exogenous adult stem cells to survive the harsh environment of the degenerated intervertebral disc. Endogenous repair by nucleus pulposus mesenchymal stem cells ( NPMSCs) has recently shown promising regenerative potential for the treatment of IDD. Notochordal cells ( NCs) and NC-conditioned medium ( NCCM) have been proven to possess regenerative ability for the treatment of IDD , but this approach is limited by the isolation and passaging of NCs. Our previous study demonstrated that modified notochordal cell-rich nucleus pulposus ( NC-rich NP) has potential for the repair of IDD. However , whether this can protect NPMSCs during IDD has not been evaluated. In the current study , tumor necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF)- α was used to mimic the inflammatory environment of IDD. Human NPMSCs were cocultured with NC-rich NP explants from healthy rabbit lumbar spine with or without TNF-α. Cell proliferation and senescence were analyzed to investigate the effect of NC-rich NP explants on TNF-α-treated NPMSCs. The expression of mRNA encoding proteins related to matrix macromolecules ( such as aggrecan , Sox-9 , collagen Iα , and collagen IIα) , markers related to the nucleus pulposus cell phenotype ( including CA12 , FOXF1 , PAX1 , and HIF-1α) , and senescence markers ( such as p16 , p21 , and p53) , senescence-associated proinflammatory cytokines ( IL-6) , and extracellular proteases ( MMP-13 , ADAMTS-5) was assessed. The protein expression of CA12 and collagen II was also evaluated. After a 7-day treatment , the NC-rich NP explant was found to enhance cell proliferation , decrease cellular senescence , promote glycosaminoglycan ( GAG) , collagen II , and CA12 production , upregulate the expression of extracellular matrix ( ECM)- related genes ( collagen I , collagen II , SOX9 , and ACAN) , and enhance the expression of nucleus pulposus cell ( NPC) markers ( HIF-1α , FOXF1 , PAX1 , and CA12). Modified NC-rich NP explants can attenuate TNF-α-induced degeneration and senescence of NPMSCs in vitro. Our findings provide new insights into the therapeutic potential of NC-rich NP for the treatment of IDD.