  To estimate prevalence and clustering of cardiovascular risk factors ( CRFs) , and investigate the association between relevant characteristics and CRF clustering among adults in eastern China. Community-based cross-sectional study. Data were collected by interview survey , physical measurements and laboratory examinations from the 2011 Nanjing Chronic<disease> Disease<disease> and Risk Factor Surveillance. A representative sample of 41 072 residents aged ≥ 18 years volunteered to participate in the survey , with a response rate of 91.3 %. We excluded 1232 subjects due to missing data or having a history of cardiovascular diseases; a total of 39 840 participants were included in the analysis. Prevalence and clustering of five major CRFs including hypertension , diabetes , dyslipidaemia , overweight or obesity and current smoking. Of 39 840 participants ( mean age 47.9 ± 16.2 years) , 17 964 ( 45.1 %) were men and 21 876 ( 54.9 %) were women. The weighted prevalence of CRFs ranged between 6.2 % for diabetes and 35.6 % for overweight or obesity. The proportion of CRFs tended to be higher in men , the elderly , participants who lost a life partner , or lived in rural areas , or had lower level of education and total annual income. Overall , 30.1 % and 35.2 % of participants had one and at least two CRFs , respectively. Multivariate logistic regression revealed that men , older age , loss of a life partner , lower level of socioeconomic status , rural areas , insufficient physical activity or unhealthy diets were positively associated with CVD risk factor clustering , compared with their counterparts. High regional prevalence of hypertension , dyslipidaemia , overweight or obesity and their clustering are present in Nanjing. The Nanjing government should develop effective public health policies at the regional level especially for high-risk groups , such as enhancing the public 's health awareness , organising health promotion programmes , implementing smoke-free law , producing healthy nutrient foods , providing free or low-cost public sports and fitness facilities.