  Akt kinases are key signaling components in proliferation-competent and post-mitotic cells. Here , we sought to create a conditionally-inducible form of active Akt for both in vitro and in vivo applications. We fused a ligand-responsive Destabilizing Domain ( DD) derived from E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> dihydrofolate reductase to a constitutively active mutant form of Akt1 , Akt ( E40K). Prior work indicated that such fusion proteins may be stabilized and induced by a ligand , the antibiotic Trimethoprim ( TMP). We observed dose-dependent , reversible induction of both total and phosphorylated/active DD-Akt ( E40K) by TMP across several cellular backgrounds in culture , including neurons. Phosphorylation of FoxO4 , an Akt substrate , was significantly elevated after DD-Akt ( E40K) induction , indicating the induced protein was functionally active. The induced Akt ( E40K) protected cells from apoptosis evoked by serum deprivation and was neuroprotective in two cellular models of Parkinson 's disease ( 6-OHDA and MPP + exposure). There was no significant protection without induction. We also evaluated Akt ( E40K) induction by TMP in mouse substantia nigra and striatum<pathogen> after neuronal delivery via an AAV1 adeno-associated viral vector. While there was significant induction in striatum<pathogen> , there was no apparent induction in substantia nigra. To explore the possible basis for this difference , we examined DD-Akt ( E40K) induction in cultured ventral midbrain neurons. Both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons in the cultures showed DD-Akt ( E40K) induction after TMP treatment. However , basal DD-Akt ( E40K) expression was 3-fold higher for dopaminergic neurons , resulting in a significantly lower induction by TMP in this population. Such findings suggest that dopaminergic neurons may be relatively inefficient in protein degradation , a property that could relate to their lack of apparent DD-Akt ( E40K) induction in vivo and to their selective vulnerability in Parkinson 's disease. In summary , we generated an inducible , biologically active form of Akt. The degree of inducibility appears to reflect cellular context that will inform the most appropriate applications for this and related reagents.