  Through stimulation of root growth , increasing atmospheric CO2 concentration ( ( CO2)) may facilitate access of crops to sub-soil water , which could potentially prolong physiological activity in dryland environments , particularly because crops are more water use efficient under elevated ( CO2) ( e ( CO2)). This study investigated the effect of drought in shallow soil versus sub-soil on agronomic and physiological<symptom> responses<symptom> of wheat to e ( CO2) in a glasshouse experiment. Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L. cv. Yitpi) was grown in split-columns with the top ( 0-30 cm) and bottom ( 31-60 cm; ` sub-soil ') soil layer hydraulically separated by a wax-coated , root-penetrable layer under ambient ( CO2) ( a ( CO2) , ∼ 400 μmol mol-1) or e ( CO2) ( ∼ 700 μmol mol-1) ( CO2). Drought was imposed from stem-elongation in either the top or bottom soil layer or both by withholding 33 % of the irrigation , resulting in four water treatments ( WW , WD , DW , DD; D = drought , W = well-watered , letters denote water treatment in top and bottom soil layer , respectively). Leaf gas exchange was measured weekly from stem-elongation until anthesis. Above-and belowground biomass , grain yield and yield components were evaluated at three developmental stages ( stem-elongation , anthesis and maturity). Compared with a ( CO2) , net assimilation rate was higher and stomatal conductance was lower under e ( CO2) , resulting in greater intrinsic water use efficiency. Elevated ( CO2) stimulated both above- and belowground biomass as well as grain yield , however , this stimulation was greater under well-watered ( WW) than drought ( DD) throughout the whole soil profile. Imposition of drought in either or both soil layers decreased aboveground biomass and grain yield under both ( CO2) compared to the well-watered treatment. However , the greatest ` CO2 fertilisation effect ' was observed when drought was imposed in the top soil layer only ( DW) , and this was associated with e ( CO2)- stimulation of root growth especially in the well-watered bottom layer. We suggest that stimulation of belowground biomass under e ( CO2) will allow better access to sub-soil water during grain filling period , when additional water is converted into additional yield with high efficiency in Mediterranean-type dryland agro-ecosystems. If sufficient water is available in the sub-soil , e ( CO2) may help mitigating the effect of drying surface soil.