  Social media use has become ubiquitous in the lives of many people , especially young adults. A popular recent trend emerging on social media is that of posting and following ` Fitspirational ' content- material that purports to motivate and showcase healthy lifestyle habits , particularly relating to exercise and diet. There is very limited existing literature on how engaging with this type of content influences people 's psychological and physical heath. Initial studies have focused on concerns over potential negative effects on psychological wellbeing including body image , self-esteem and eating disorders. We aimed to address a gap in the literature for exploratory research on this topic from the perspective of users. We used a qualitative approach to explore how people experience viewing Fitspiration on social media including why and how they engage with this material and how they perceive that it affects their thoughts , emotions , behaviour and health. We recruited 20 young adults ( 14 females , 6 males , aged 18-25) who self-declared themselves to be Fitspiration followers to participate in either focus groups or individual interviews. We asked detailed , open-ended questions about their motivations for following Fitspiration , experiences of viewing this content and its perceived impact. We used inductive thematic analysis to derive themes that represented common and salient features of the data set. Four main themes were developed: 1) A tool with the potential to support healthy living , 2) Unrealistic , untrustworthy content , 3) Negative effects on emotional wellbeing , and 4) Vulnerability and protective factors. Following Fitspirational posts on social media can provide young people with knowledge and motivation that may support healthy lifestyle behaviours. However , a range of harms also appeared to arise from Fitspiration viewing ranging from minor annoyances and frustrations to more meaningful negative effects on psychological & physical health. These negative effects seemed to persist despite individuals acknowledging that the material can be unrealistic , and believing that they are personally equipped to minimise harms to themselves. This study suggests that Fitspiration on social media can be attractive and compelling for young people but appears to bring about negative as well as positive effects. Future research should aim to confirm the scale and intensity of positive and negative effects and investigate ways of harnessing desirable outcomes and minimising undesirable outcomes.