  Morphological brain network plays a key role in investigating abnormalities in neurological diseases such as mild cognitive impairment ( MCI) and Alzheimer 's disease ( AD). However , most of the morphological brain network construction methods only considered a single morphological feature. Each type of morphological feature has specific neurological and genetic underpinnings. A combination of morphological features has been proven to have better diagnostic performance compared with a single feature , which suggests that an individual morphological brain network based on multiple morphological features would be beneficial in disease diagnosis. Here , we proposed a novel method to construct individual morphological brain networks for two datasets by calculating the exponential function of multivariate Euclidean distance as the evaluation of similarity between two regions. The first dataset included 24 healthy subjects who were scanned twice within a 3-month period. The topological properties of these brain networks were analyzed and compared with previous studies that used different methods and modalities. Small world property was observed in all of the subjects , and the high reproducibility indicated the robustness of our method. The second dataset included 170 patients with MCI ( 86 stable MCI and 84 progressive MCI cases) and 169 normal controls ( NC). The edge features extracted from the individual morphological brain networks were used to distinguish MCI from NC and separate MCI subgroups ( progressive vs. stable) through the support vector machine in order to validate our method. The results showed that our method achieved an accuracy of 79.65 % ( MCI vs. NC) and 70.59 % ( stable MCI vs. progressive MCI) in a one-dimension situation. In a multiple-dimension situation , our method improved the classification performance with an accuracy of 80.53 % ( MCI vs. NC) and 77.06 % ( stable MCI vs. progressive MCI) compared with the method using a single feature. The results indicated that our method could effectively construct an individual morphological brain network based on multiple morphological features and could accurately discriminate MCI from NC and stable MCI from progressive MCI , and may provide a valuable tool for the investigation of individual morphological brain networks.