  Sepsis<disease> is associated with high early and total in-hospital mortality. Despite recent revisions in the diagnostic criteria for sepsis<disease> that sought to improve predictive validity for mortality , it remains difficult to identify patients at greatest risk of death. We compared the utility of nine biomarkers to predict mortality in subjects with clinically suspected bacterial sepsis<disease>. Cohort study. The medical and surgical ICUs at an academic medical center. We enrolled 139 subjects who met two or more systemic inflammatory response syndrome<disease> ( systemic inflammatory response syndrome<disease>) criteria and received new broad-spectrum antibacterial therapy. We assayed nine biomarkers ( α-2 macroglobulin , C-reactive protein , ferritin , fibrinogen , haptoglobin , procalcitonin , serum amyloid A , serum amyloid P , and tissue plasminogen activator) at onset of suspected sepsis<disease> and 24 , 48 , and 72 hours thereafter. We compared biomarkers between groups based on both 14-day and total in-hospital mortality and evaluated the predictive validity of single and paired biomarkers via area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Fourteen-day mortality was 12.9 % , and total in-hospital mortality was 29.5 %. Serum amyloid P was significantly lower ( 4/4 timepoints) and tissue plasminogen activator significantly higher ( 3/4 timepoints) in the 14-day mortality group , and the same pattern held for total in-hospital mortality ( Wilcoxon p ≤ 0.046 for all timepoints). Serum amyloid P and tissue plasminogen activator demonstrated the best individual predictive performance for mortality , and combinations of biomarkers including serum amyloid P and tissue plasminogen activator achieved greater predictive performance ( area under the receiver operating characteristic curve > 0.76 for 14-d and 0.74 for total mortality). Combined biomarkers predict risk for 14-day and total mortality among subjects with suspected sepsis<disease>. Serum amyloid P and tissue plasminogen activator demonstrated the best discriminatory ability in this cohort.