  Interventional therapy using brain-computer interface ( BCI) technology has shown promise in facilitating motor recovery in stroke survivors; however , the impact of this form of intervention on functional networks outside of the motor network specifically is not well-understood. Here , we investigated resting-state functional connectivity ( rs-FC) in stroke participants undergoing BCI therapy across stages , namely pre- and post-intervention , to identify discriminative functional changes using a machine learning classifier with the goal of categorizing participants into one of the two therapy stages. Twenty chronic stroke participants with persistent upper-extremity motor impairment received neuromodulatory training using a closed-loop neurofeedback BCI device , and rs-functional MRI ( rs-fMRI) scans were collected at four time points: pre- , mid- , post- , and 1 month post-therapy. To evaluate the peak effects of this intervention , rs-FC was analyzed from two specific stages , namely pre- and post-therapy. In total , 236 seeds spanning both motor and non-motor regions of the brain were computed at each stage. A univariate feature selection was applied to reduce the number of features followed by a principal component-based data transformation used by a linear binary support vector machine ( SVM) classifier to classify each participant into a therapy stage. The SVM classifier achieved a cross-validation accuracy of 92.5 % using a leave-one-out method. Outside of the motor network , seeds from the fronto-parietal task control , default mode , subcortical , and visual networks emerged as important contributors to the classification. Furthermore , a higher number of functional changes were observed to be strengthening from the pre- to post-therapy stage than the ones weakening , both of which involved motor and non-motor regions of the brain. These findings may provide new evidence to support the potential clinical utility of BCI therapy as a form of stroke rehabilitation that not only benefits motor recovery but also facilitates recovery in other brain networks. Moreover , delineation of stronger and weaker changes may inform more optimal designs of BCI interventional therapy so as to facilitate strengthened and suppress weakened changes in the recovery process.