  Community pharmacists are well positioned to deliver chronic kidney disease ( CKD) screening services. However , little is known about the challenges faced by pharmacists during service implementation. This study aimed to explore community pharmacists ' experiences and perceived barriers of implementing a CKD risk assessment service. Data collection was performed by using semistructured , open-ended interview questions. Pharmacists who had implemented a CKD screening service in Tasmania , Australia , were eligible to participate. A purposeful sampling strategy was used to select pharmacists , with variation in demographics and pharmacy location. A conventional content analysis approach was used to conduct the qualitative study. Transcripts were thematically analyzed by using the NVivo 11 software program. Initially , a list of free nodes was generated and data were coded exhaustively into relevant nodes. These nodes were then regrouped to form highly conceptualized themes. Five broad themes emerged from the analysis: contextual fit within community pharmacy; perceived scope of pharmacy practice; customer perception toward disease prevention; CKD- an underestimated disease; and remuneration for a beneficial service. Pharmacists found the CKD service efficient , user-friendly , and of substantial benefit to their customers. However , several pharmacists observed that their customers lacked interest in disease prevention , and had limited understanding of CKD. More importantly , pharmacists perceived the scope of pharmacy practice to depend substantially on interprofessional collaboration between pharmacists and general practitioners , and customer acknowledgment of pharmacists ' role in disease prevention. Community pharmacists perceived the CKD service to be worth incorporating into pharmacy practice. To increase uptake , future CKD services should aim to improve customer awareness about CKD before providing risk assessment. Further research investigating strategies to enhance general practitioner involvement in pharmacist-initiated disease prevention services is also needed.