  The global strategy to control helminthiases ( schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminthiasis) emphasizes preventive chemotherapy. However , in the absence of access to clean water , improved sanitation , and adequate hygiene , reinfection after treatment can occur rapidly. Integrated approaches might be necessary to sustain the benefits of preventive chemotherapy and make progress toward interruption of helminthiases transmission. The aim of this study was to assess and quantify the effect of an integrated control package that consists of preventive chemotherapy , community-led total sanitation , and health education on soil-transmitted helminthiasis , schistosomiasis , intestinal protozoa infection , and diarrhea<disease> in rural C么te d'Ivoire. In a first step , a community health education program was developed that includes an animated cartoon to promote improved hygiene and health targeting school-aged children , coupled with a health education theater for the entire community. In a second step , a cluster randomized trial was implemented in 56 communities of south-central C么te d'Ivoire with 4 intervention arms: ( 1) preventive chemotherapy; ( 2) preventive chemotherapy plus community-led total sanitation; ( 3) preventive chemotherapy plus health education; and ( 4) all 3 interventions combined. Before implementation of the aforementioned interventions , a baseline parasitologic , anthropometric , and hygiene-related knowledge , attitudes , practices , and beliefs survey was conducted. These surveys were repeated 18 and 39 months after the baseline cross-sectional survey to determine the effect of different interventions on helminth and intestinal protozoa infection , nutritional indicators , and knowledge , attitudes , practices , and beliefs. Monitoring of diarrhea<disease> was done over a 24-month period at 2-week intervals , starting right after the baseline survey. Key results from this cluster randomized trial will shed light on the effect of integrated approaches consisting of preventive chemotherapy , community-led total sanitation , and health education against infections with soil-transmitted helminths , schistosomes , an intestinal protozoa and prevention of diarrhea<disease> in a rural part of C么te d'Ivoire. The research provided new insights into the acceptability , strengths , and limitations of an integrated community-based control package targeting helminthiases , intestinal protozoa infections , and diarrhea<disease> in rural communities of C么te d'Ivoire. In the longer term , the study will allow determining the effect of the integrated control approach on infection patterns with parasitic worms and intestinal protozoa , diarrheal incidence , anthropometric measures , and hygiene-related knowledge , attitudes , practices , and beliefs. International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number ( ISRCTN): 53102033; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN53102033 ( Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6wpnXEiHo). RR1-10.2196/ 9166.