  B cells derive their antigen-specificity through the expression of Immunoglobulin ( Ig) receptors on their surface. These receptors are initially generated stochastically by somatic re-arrangement of the DNA and further diversified following antigen-activation by a process of somatic hypermutation , which introduces mainly point substitutions into the receptor DNA at a high rate. Recent advances in next-generation sequencing have enabled large-scale profiling of the B cell Ig repertoire from blood and tissue samples. A key computational challenge in the analysis of these data is partitioning the sequences to identify descendants of a common B cell ( i.e. a clone). Current methods group sequences using a fixed distance threshold , or a likelihood calculation that is computationally-intensive. Here , we propose a new method based on spectral clustering with an adaptive threshold to determine the local sequence neighborhood. Validation using simulated and experimental datasets demonstrates that this method has high sensitivity and specificity compared to a fixed threshold that is optimized for these measures. In addition , this method works on datasets where choosing an optimal fixed threshold is difficult and is more computationally efficient in all cases. The ability to quickly and accurately identify members of a clone from repertoire sequencing data will greatly improve downstream analyses. Clonally-related sequences can not be treated independently in statistical models , and clonal partitions are used as the basis for the calculation of diversity metrics , lineage reconstruction and selection analysis. Thus , the spectral clustering-based method here represents an important contribution to repertoire analysis. Source code for this method is freely available in the SCOPe ( Spectral Clustering for clOne Partitioning) R package in the Immcantation framework: www.immcantation.org under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license. Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.