  In living donor liver transplantation ( LDLT) , graft-to-recipient weight ratio ( GRWR) > 0.8 % is perceived as the critical graft size. This lower limit of GRWR ( 0.8 %) has been challenged over the last decade owing to the surgical refinements , especially related to inflow and outflow modulation techniques. Our aim was to compare the recipient outcome in small-for-size ( GRWR < 0.8) versus normal-sized grafts ( GRWR > 0.8) and to determine the risk factors for mortality when small-for-size grafts ( SFSG) were used. Data of 200 transplant recipients and their donors were analyzed over a period of two years. Routine practice of harvesting middle hepatic vein ( MHV) or reconstructing anterior sectoral veins into neo-MHV was followed during LDLT. Outcomes were compared in terms of mortality , hospital stay , ICU stay , and occurrence of various complications such as functional small-for-size syndrome<disease> ( F-SFSS) , hepatic artery thrombosis ( HAT) , early allograft dysfunction ( EAD) , portal vein thrombosis ( PVT) , and postoperative sepsis<disease>. A multivariate analysis was also done to determine the risk factors for mortality in both the groups. Recipient and donor characteristics , intraoperative variables , and demographical data were comparable in both the groups ( GRWR < 0.8 and GRWR ≥ 0.8). Postoperative 90-day mortality ( 15.5 % vs. 22.85 %) , mean ICU stay ( 10 vs. 10.32 days) , and mean hospital stay ( 21.4 vs. 20.76 days) were statistically similar in the groups. There was no difference in postoperative outcomes such as occurrence of SFSS , HAT , PVT , EAD , or sepsis<disease> between the groups. Thrombosis of MHV/reconstructed MHV was a risk factor for mortality in grafts with GRWR < 0.8 but not in those with GRWR > 0.8. Graft survival after LDLT using a small-for-size right lobe graft ( GRWR < 0.8 %) is as good as with normal grafts. However , patency of anterior sectoral outflow by MHV or reconstructed MHV is crucial to maintain graft function when SFSG are used.