  Deer antlers are the only known mammalian organ with vascularized cartilage that can completely regenerate. Antlers are of real significance as a model of mammalian stem cell-based regeneration with particular relevance to the fields of chondrogenesis , angiogenesis , and regenerative medicine. Recent research found that thymosin beta 10 ( TMSB10) is highly expressed in the growth centers of growing antlers. The present study reports here the expression , functions , and molecular interactions of deer TMSB10. The TMSB10 expression level in both tissue and cells in the antler growth center was measured. The effects of both exogenous ( synthetic protein) and endogenous deer TMSB10 ( lentivirus-based overexpression) on antlerogenic periosteal cells ( APCs; nonactivated antler stem cells with no basal expression of TMSB10) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs; endothelial cells with no basal expression of TMSB10) were evaluated to determine whether TMSB10 functions on chondrogenesis and angiogenesis. Differences in deer and human TMSB10 in angiogenesis and molecular structure were determined using animal models and molecular dynamics simulation , respectively. The molecular mechanisms underlying deer TMSB10 in promoting angiogenesis were also explored. Deer TMSB10 was identified as a novel proangiogenic factor both in vitro and in vivo. Immunohistochemistry revealed that TMSB10 was widely expressed in the antler growth center in situ , with the highest expression in the reserve mesenchyme , precartilage , and transitional zones. Western blot analysis using deer cell lines further supports this result. Both exogenous and endogenous deer TMSB10 significantly decreased proliferation of APCs ( P < 0.05) , while increasing the proliferation of HUVECs ( P < 0.05). Moreover , deer TMSB10 enhanced chondrogenesis in micromass cultures and nerve growth as assessed using a dorsal root ganglion model ( P < 0.05). Deer TMSB10 was proangiogenic using models of chicken chorioallantoic membrane , tube formation , and aortic arch assay. At the molecular level , endogenous deer TMSB10 elevated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF) , VEGF-B , VEGF-C , and VEGF-D , and VEGFR2 and VEGFR3 in HUVECs ( P < 0.05). Deer TMSB10 , in contrast to its human counterpart , was identified as a novel stimulating factor for angiogenesis , cartilage formation , and nerve growth , which is understandable given that deer antlers ( as the arguably fastest mammalian growing tissue) may require this extra boost during a period of rapid growth and regeneration.