  Despite a more proactive approach to reducing new HIV<pathogen> infections in infants through lifelong treatment ( Option B + policy) for infected pregnant women , prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV<pathogen> ( PMTCT) has not been fully effective in Papua , Indonesia. Mother-to-child transmission ( MTCT) is the second greatest risk factor for HIV<pathogen> infection in the community , and an elimination target of < 1 % MTCT has not yet been achieved. The purpose of this study was to improve understanding of the implementation of Option B + for PMTCT in Papua through investigation of facilitators and barriers to women 's uptake and adherence to antiretroviral therapy ( ART) in the program. This information is vital for improving program outcomes and success of program scale up in similar settings in Papua. In-depth interviews were conducted with 20 women and 20 PMTCT health workers at two main referral hospitals for PMTCT in Papua. Development of interview guides was informed by the socio-ecological framework. Qualitative data were managed with NVivo11 software and themes were analysed using template analysis. Factors influencing women 's uptake and adherence in Option B + for PMTCT were identified through final analysis of key themes. Factors that motivated PMTCT uptake and adherence were good quality post-test HIV<pathogen> counselling , belief in the efficacy of antiretroviral ( ARV) attained through personal or peer experiences , and a partner who did not prevent women from seeking PMTCT care. Key barriers for PMTCT participation included doubts about ARV efficacy , particularly for asymptomatic women , unsupportive partners who actively prevented women from seeking treatment , and women 's concerns about community stigma and discrimination. Results suggest that PMTCT program success is determined by facilitators and barriers from across the spectrum of the socio-ecological model. While roll out of Option B + as current national policy for pregnant women in Papua has improved detection and enrolment of HIV-positive women , health facilities need to address various existing and potential issues to ensure long-term adherence of women beyond the current PMTCT program , including during pregnancy , childbirth and breastfeeding.