  Breast cancer pathologic complete response ( pCR) to neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( NAC) varies with tumor subtype. The purpose of this study was to identify an early treatment window for predicting pCR based on tumor subtype , pretreatment total hemoglobin ( tHb) level , and early changes in tHb following NAC. Twenty-two patients ( mean age 56 years , range 34-74 years) were assessed using a near-infrared imager coupled with an Ultrasound system prior to treatment , 7 days after the first treatment , at the end of each of the first three cycles , and before their definitive surgery. Pathologic responses were dichotomized by the Miller-Payne system. Tumor vascularity was assessed from tHb; vascularity changes during NAC were assessed from a percentage tHb normalized to the pretreatment level ( % tHb). After training the logistic prediction models using the previous study data , we assessed the early treatment window for predicting pathological response according to their tumor subtype ( human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2) , estrogen receptor ( ER) , triple-negative ( TN)) based on tHb , and % tHb measured at different cycles and evaluated by the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC) curve ( AUC). In the new study cohort , maximum pretreatment tHb and % tHb changes after cycles 1 , 2 , and 3 were significantly higher in responder Miller-Payne 4-5 tumors ( n = 13) than non-or partial responder Miller-Payne 1-3 tumors ( n = 9). However , no significance was found at day 7. The AUC of the predictive power of pretreatment tHb in the cohort was 0.75 , which was similar to the performance of the HER2 subtype as a single predictor ( AUC of 0.78). A greater predictive power of pretreatment tHb was found within each subtype , with AUCs of 0.88 , 0.69 , and 0.72 , in the HER2 , ER , and TN subtypes , respectively. Using pretreatment tHb and cycle 1 % tHb , AUC reached 0.96 , 0.91 , and 0.90 in HER2 , ER , and TN subtypes , respectively , and 0.95 regardless of subtype. Additional cycle 2 % tHb measurements moderately improved prediction for the HER2 subtype but did not improve prediction for the ER and TN subtypes. By combining tumor subtypes with tHb , we predicted the pCR of breast cancer to NAC before treatment. Prediction accuracy can be significantly improved by incorporating cycle 1 and 2 % tHb for the HER2 subtype and cycle 1 % tHb for the ER and TN subtypes. ClinicalTrials.gov , NCT02092636. Registered in March 2014.