  pH is frequently reported as the main driver for prokaryotic community structure in soils. However , pH changes are also linked to `` spillover effects '' on other chemical parameters ( e.g. , availability of Al , Fe , Mn , Zn , and Cu) and plant growth , but these indirect effects on the microbial communities are rarely investigated. Usually , pH also co-varies with some confounding factors , such as land use , soil management ( e.g. , tillage and chemical inputs) , plant cover , and/or edapho-climatic conditions. So , a more comprehensive analysis of the direct and indirect effects of pH brings a better understanding of the mechanisms driving prokaryotic ( archaeal and bacterial) community structures. We evaluated an agricultural soil pH gradient ( from 4 to 6 , the typical range for tropical farms) , in a liming gradient with confounding factors minimized , investigating relationships between prokaryotic communities ( 16S rRNA) and physical-chemical parameters ( indirect effects). Correlations , hierarchical modeling of species communities ( HMSC) , and random forest<disease> ( RF) modeling indicated that both direct and indirect effects of the pH gradient affected the prokaryotic communities. Some OTUs were more affected by the pH changes ( e.g. , some Actinobacteria) , while others were more affected by the indirect pH effects ( e.g. , some Proteobacteria). HMSC detected a phylogenetic signal related to the effects. Both HMSC and RF indicated that the main indirect effect was the pH changes on the availability of some elements ( e.g. , Al , Fe , and Cu) , and secondarily , effects on plant growth and nutrient cycling also affected the OTUs. Additionally , we found that some of the OTUs that responded to pH also correlated with CO Our results indicate that there are two distinct pH-related mechanisms driving prokaryotic community structures , the direct effect and `` spillover effects '' of pH ( indirect effects). Moreover , the indirect effects are highly relevant for some OTUs and consequently for the community structure; therefore , it is a mechanism that should be further investigated in microbial ecology.