  Arterial calcification is associated with cardiovascular disease as a complication of advanced atherosclerosis and is a significant contributor to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Osteoblastic differentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs) plays an important role in arterial calcification and is characterized by cellular necrosis<symptom> , inflammation<symptom> , and lipoprotein and phospholipid complexes , especially in atherosclerotic calcification. The conditioned medium from bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC-CM) is well known as a rich source of autologous cytokines and is universally used for tissue regeneration in current clinical medicine. Here , we demonstrate that MSC-CM inhibits beta-glycerophosphate ( β-GP)- induced vascular calcification through blockade of the bone morphogenetic protein-2 ( BMP2)- Smad1/5/8 signaling pathway. VSMC calcification was induced by β-GP followed by treatment with MSC-CM. Mineral deposition was assessed by Alizarin Red S staining. Intracellular calcium content was determined colorimetrically by the o-cresolphthalein complexone method and alkaline phosphatase ( ALP) activity was measured by the para-nitrophenyl phosphate method. Expression of BMP2 , BMPR1A , BMPR1B , BMPR2 , msh homeobox 2 ( Msx2) , Runt-related transcription factor 2 ( Runx2) , and osteocalcin ( OC) , representative osteoblastic markers , was assessed using real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis while the protein expression of BMP2 , Runx2 , and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 was detected by western blot analysis. Our data demonstrated that MSC-CM inhibits osteoblastic differentiation and mineralization of VSMCs as evidenced by decreased calcium content , ALP activity , and decreased expression of BMP-2 , Runx2 , Msx2 , and OC. MSC-CM suppressed the expression of phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 and the β-GP-induced translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Further study demonstrated that human recombinant BMP-2 overcame the suppression of VSMC calcification by MSC-CM. MSC-CM may act as a novel therapy for VSMC calcification by mediating the BMP2-Smad1/ 5/8 signaling pathway.