  Cash-based interventions ( CBIs) increasingly are being used to deliver humanitarian assistance and there is growing interest in the cost-effectiveness of cash transfers for preventing undernutrition in emergency contexts. The objectives of this study were to assess the costs , cost-efficiency and cost-effectiveness in achieving nutrition outcomes of three CBIs in southern Pakistan: a ` double cash ' ( DC) transfer , a ` standard cash ' ( SC) transfer and a ` fresh food voucher ' ( FFV) transfer. Cash and FFVs were provided to poor households with children aged 6-48 months for 6 months in 2015. The SC and FFV interventions provided $ 14 monthly and the DC provided $ 28 monthly. Cost data were collected via institutional accounting records , interviews , programme observation , document review and household survey. Cost-effectiveness was assessed as cost per case of wasting , stunting and disability-adjusted life year ( DALY) averted. Beneficiary costs were higher for the cash groups than the voucher group. Net total cost transfer ratios ( TCTRs) were estimated as 1.82 for DC , 2.82 for SC and 2.73 for FFV. Yet , despite the higher operational costs , the FFV TCTR was lower than the SC TCTR when incorporating the participation cost to households , demonstrating the relevance of including beneficiary costs in cost-efficiency estimations. The DC intervention achieved a reduction in wasting , at $ 4865 per case averted; neither the SC nor the FFV interventions reduced wasting. The cost per case of stunting averted was $ 1290 for DC , $ 882 for SC and $ 883 for FFV. The cost per DALY averted was $ 641 for DC , $ 434 for SC and $ 563 for FFV without discounting or age weighting. These interventions are highly cost-effective by international thresholds. While it is debatable whether these resource requirements represent a feasible or sustainable investment given low health expenditures in Pakistan , these findings may provide justification for continuing Pakistan 's investment in national social safety nets.