  Adaptation of antibody-mediated immunity occurs in germinal centers ( GC). It is where affinity maturation , class switching , memory and plasma cell differentiation synergize to generate specific high-affinity antibodies that aid both to clear and protect against reinfection of invading pathogens. Within GCs , light and dark zone are two compartments instrumental in regulating this process , by segregating T cell-dependent selection and differentiation from generation of GC B cells bearing hypermutated antigen receptors. Spatial segregation of GC B cells into the two zones relies on the chemokine receptor CXCR4 , with textbooks attributing high and low expression to a dark and light zone phenotype. Interestingly , this bipolarity is not reflected in the CXCR4 expression profile of GC B cells , which is highly variable and unimodal , indicating a continuum of intermediate CXCR4 levels rather than a binary dark or light zone phenotype. Here , analysis of published BrdU pulse-chase data reveals that throughout cell cycle , average CXCR4 expression in GC B cells steadily increases close to twofold , scaling with cell surface area. CXCR4 expression in recently divided GC B cells in G0/G1 or early S phase shows intermediate levels compared to cells in G2M phase , consistent with their smaller size. The lowest number of CXCR4 receptors are displayed by relatively aged GC B cells in G0/G1 or early S phase. The latter , upon progressing through S phase , however , ramp up relative CXCR4 expression twice as much as recently divided cells. Twelve hours after the BrdU pulse , labeled GC B cells , while initially in S phase , are desynchronized in terms of cell cycle and match the CXCR4 profile of unlabeled cells. A model is discussed in which CXCR4 expression in GC B cell increases with cell cycle and cell surface area , with highest levels in G2 and M phase , coinciding with GC B cell receptor signaling in G2 and immediately preceding activation-induced cytidine deaminase ( AID) activity in early G1. In the model , GC B cells compete for CXCL12 expression on the basis of their CXCR4 expression , gaining a relative advantage as they progress in cell cycle , but loosing the advantage at the moment they divide.