  The goal of this review article is to assess how relevant is the concept of dissipative structure for understanding the dynamical bases of non-equilibrium self-organization in biological systems , and to see where it has been applied in the five decades since it was initially proposed by Ilya Prigogine. Dissipative structures can be classified into four types , which will be considered , in turn , and illustrated by biological examples: ( i) multistability , in the form of bistability and tristability , which involve the coexistence of two or three stable steady states , or in the form of birhythmicity , which involves the coexistence between two stable rhythms; ( ii) temporal dissipative structures in the form of sustained oscillations , illustrated by biological rhythms; ( iii) spatial dissipative structures , known as Turing patterns; and ( iv) spatio-temporal structures in the form of propagating waves. Rhythms occur with widely different periods at all levels of biological organization , from neural , cardiac and metabolic oscillations to circadian clocks and the cell cycle; they play key roles in physiology and in many disorders. New rhythms are being uncovered while artificial ones are produced by synthetic biology. Rhythms provide the richest source of examples of dissipative structures in biological systems. Bistability has been observed experimentally , but has primarily been investigated in theoretical models in an increasingly wide range of biological contexts , from the genetic to the cell and animal population levels , both in physiological conditions and in disease. Bistable transitions have been implicated in the progression between the different phases of the cell cycle and , more generally , in the process of cell fate specification in the developing embryo. Turing patterns are exemplified by the formation of some periodic structures in the course of development and by skin stripe patterns in animals. Spatio-temporal patterns in the form of propagating waves are observed within cells as well as in intercellular communication. This review illustrates how dissipative structures of all sorts abound in biological systems.This article is part of the theme issue ` Dissipative structures in matter out of equilibrium: from chemistry , photonics and biology ( part 1) '.