  Obesity and diabetes mellitus , or diabetes , are independently associated with post-ischemic stroke outcomes ( e.g. , functional disability and all-cause mortality). Although obesity and diabetes are also associated with post-ischemic stroke outcomes , the joint effect of obesity and diabetes on these post-ischemic stroke outcomes has not been explored previously. The purpose of the current study was to explore whether the effect of obesity on post-ischemic stroke outcomes differed by diabetes status in a cohort of acute ischemic stroke subjects with at least a moderate stroke severity. Data from the Interventional Management of Stroke ( IMS) III clinical trial was analyzed for this post-hoc analysis. A total of 656 subjects were enrolled in IMS III and were followed for one year. The joint effects of obesity and diabetes on functional disability at 3-months and all-cause mortality at 1-year were examined. Of 645 subjects with complete obesity and diabetes information , few were obese ( 25.74 %) or had diabetes ( 22.64 %). Obese subjects with diabetes and non-obese subjects without diabetes had similar odds of functional disability at 3-months following an ischemic stroke ( adjusted common odds ratio , 1.038 , 95 % CI: 0.631 , 1.706). For all-cause mortality at 1-year following an ischemic stroke , obese subjects with diabetes had a similar hazard compared with non-obese subjects without diabetes ( adjusted hazard ratio , 1.005 , 95 % CI: 0.559 , 1.808). There was insufficient evidence to declare a joint effect between obesity and diabetes on either the multiplicative scale or the additive scale for both outcomes. In this post-hoc analysis of data from the IMS III clinical trial of acute ischemic stroke patients with at least a moderate stroke severity , there was not sufficient evidence to determine that the effect of obesity differed by diabetes status on post-ischemic stroke outcomes. Additionally , there was not sufficient evidence to determine that either factor was independently associated with all-cause mortality. Future studies could differentiate between metabolically healthy and metabolically unhealthy patients within BMI categories to determine if the effect of obesity on post-stroke outcomes differs by diabetes status.