  This study aimed to explore the opinions of healthcare professionals regarding the management of men with advanced prostate cancer with particular emphasis on treatment timing and sequencing; treatment adverse-effects and exercise a supportive therapy. Semi-structured interviews with a purposively selected group of healthcare professionals involved in prostate cancer care within the NHS , conducted over the phone or face to face. A total of 37 healthcare professionals participated in the interviews including urologists , clinical oncologists , medical oncologists , clinical nurse specialists , general practitioners , physiotherapists , exercise specialists , service managers , clinical commissioners and primary care physicians. The availability of newer treatments for advanced prostate cancer as well as results from the STAMPEDE and CHAARTED trials has resulted in new challenges for patients and HCPs. This includes the impact of an increased workload on oncologists , a potential lack of clinical continuity between urology and oncology and uncertainties regarding optimal selection , timing and sequencing of chemotherapy and second-line treatment. Fitness for treatment in advanced prostate cancer populations remains a significant barrier to accessing therapies for patients with a poor performance status. Among this , muscle wastage can significantly affect performance status and consequentially compromise cancer therapy. Exercise was regarded as a potential therapy to mitigate the adverse-effects of treatment including the prevention or reduction in muscle wastage. There is a lack of data guiding clinicians in this post STAMPEDE and CHAARTED era , work is needed to reassess and optimize the prostate cancer care pathway as it evolves. Exercise should be explored as a therapeutic option to mitigate the effects of long term ADT. Further study from a wider cohort of both prostate cancer care specialists and patients will aid in establishing a highly functioning pathway with optimal individualised care. Sustained exercise TrAining for Men wIth prostate caNcer on Androgen deprivation: the STAMINA programme ( RP-DG-1213-10,010). REC Reference: 15/SW/0260 IRAS Project ID: 178340 Hospital ID: STH 18391 approved on 24/08/2015.