  Substance use disorders are a major cause of health and social problems worldwide. Research evidence shows a strong graded relationship of adverse childhood experiences and substance use in adulthood. This study aimed at determining the prevalence of adverse childhood experiences and their association with substance use among patients with substance use disorders. The study used a descriptive cross-sectional design. A total of 134 patients aged 18 years and above receiving inpatient treatment for substance use disorders were recruited into the study. A mental state exam was done to rule out active psychopathology. Data on socio demographic variables , adverse childhood experiences ( ACEs) and substance use was collected using Adverse Childhood Experiences International Questionnaire and The Alcohol , Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening Test respectively. Data was analysed using statistical package for social sciences ( SPSS) version 20 for windows. Males accounted for the majority of the study participants ( n = 118 , 88.1 %). Only 43.3 % ( n = 58) of the participants had a family history of substance use disorder. The most frequently used substance was alcohol which was reported by 82.1 % of the participants. Nearly 93 % of the respondents had experienced at least one ACE and the most prevalent ACE was one or no parent which was reported by half of the respondents. The adverse childhood experiences significantly associated with current problematic substance use were; emotional abuse , having someone with mental illness in the household , physical abuse and physical neglect. Emotional abuse significantly predicted tobacco ( A.O.R = 5.3 ( 1.2-23.9)) and sedative ( A.O.R = 4.1 ( 1.2-14.2)) use. Childhood exposure to physical abuse was associated with cannabis use ( A.O.R = 2.9 ( 1.0-7.9)). Experiencing five or more ACEs was associated with increased risk of using sedatives. There is a high prevalence of adverse childhood experiences among patients with substance use disorders. Experiencing emotional abuse , having someone with mental illness in the household , physical abuse and physical neglect in childhood are risk factors of substance use disorders. ACEs screening and management should be incorporated in substance abuse prevention programs and policies.