  The Internet of Things ( IoT) utilizes algorithms to facilitate intelligent applications across cities in the form of smart-urban projects. As the majority of devices in IoT are battery operated , their applications should be facilitated with a low-power communication setup. Such facility is possible through the Low-Power Wide-Area Network ( LPWAN) , but at a constrained bit rate. For long-range communication over LPWAN , several approaches and protocols are adopted. One such protocol is the Long-Range Wide Area Network ( LoRaWAN) , which is a media access layer protocol for long-range communication between the devices and the application servers via LPWAN gateways. However , LoRaWAN comes with fewer security features as a much-secured protocol consumes more battery because of the exorbitant computational overheads. The standard protocol fails to support end-to-end security and perfect forward secrecy while being vulnerable to the replay attack that makes LoRaWAN limited in supporting applications where security ( especially end-to-end security) is important. Motivated by this , an enhanced LoRaWAN security protocol is proposed , which not only provides the basic functions of connectivity between the application server and the end device , but additionally averts these listed security issues. The proposed protocol is developed with two options , the Default Option ( DO) and the Security-Enhanced Option ( SEO). The protocol is validated through Burrows ⁻ Abadi ⁻ Needham ( BAN) logic and the Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications ( AVISPA) tool. The proposed protocol is also analyzed for overheads through system-based and low-power device-based evaluations. Further , a case study on a smart factory-enabled parking system is considered for its practical application. The results , in terms of network latency with reliability fitting and signaling overheads , show paramount improvements and better performance for the proposed protocol compared with the two handshake options , Pre-Shared Key ( PSK) and Elliptic Curve Cryptography ( ECC) , of Datagram Transport Layer Security ( DTLS).