  N-glycolylneuraminic acid ( Neu5Gc) is a non-human red-meat-derived sialic acid immunogenic to humans. Neu5Gc can be metabolically incorporated into glycan chains on human endothelial and epithelial surfaces. This represents the first example of a `` xeno-autoantigen '' , against which circulating human `` xeno-autoantibodies '' can react. The resulting inflammation<symptom> ( `` xenosialitis '') has been demonstrated in human-like Neu5Gc-deficient mice and contributed to carcinoma progression via antibody-mediated inflammation<symptom>. Anti-Neu5Gc antibodies have potential as biomarkers for diseases associated with red meat consumption such as carcinomas , atherosclerosis , and type 2 diabetes. ELISA assays measured antibodies against Neu5Gc or Neu5Gc-glycans in plasma or serum samples from the Nurses ' Health Studies , the Health Professionals Follow-up Study , and the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition , including inter-assay reproducibility , stability with delayed sample processing , and within-person reproducibility over 1-3 years in archived samples. We also assessed associations between antibody levels and coronary artery disease risk ( CAD) or red meat intake. A glycan microarray was used to detected antibodies against multiple Neu5Gc-glycan epitopes. A nested case-control study design assessed the association between total anti-Neu5Gc antibodies detected in the glycan array assay and the risk of colorectal cancer ( CRC). ELISA assays showed a wide range of anti-Neu5Gc responses and good inter-assay reproducibility , stability with delayed sample processing , and within-person reproducibility over time , but these antibody levels did not correlate with CAD risk or red meat intake. Antibodies against Neu5Gc alone or against individual Neu5Gc-bearing epitopes were also not associated with colorectal cancer ( CRC) risk. However , a sialoglycan microarray study demonstrated positive association with CRC risk when the total antibody responses against all Neu5Gc-glycans were combined. Individuals in the top quartile of total anti-Neu5Gc IgG antibody concentrations had nearly three times the risk compared to those in the bottom quartile ( Multivariate Odds Ratio comparing top to bottom quartile: 2.98 , 95 % CI: 0.80 , 11.1; P for trend = 0.02). Further work harnessing the utility of these anti-Neu5Gc antibodies as biomarkers in red meat-associated diseases must consider diversity in individual antibody profiles against different Neu5Gc-bearing glycans. Traditional ELISA assays for antibodies directed against Neu5Gc alone , or against specific Neu5Gc-glycans may not be adequate to define risk associations. Our finding of a positive association of total anti-Neu5Gc antibodies with CRC risk also warrants confirmation in larger prospective studies.