  Global environmental changes are rapidly affecting species ' distributions and habitat suitability worldwide , requiring a continuous update of biodiversity status to support effective decisions on conservation policy and management. In this regard , satellite-derived Ecosystem Functional Attributes ( EFAs) offer a more integrative and quicker evaluation of ecosystem responses to environmental drivers and changes than climate and structural or compositional landscape attributes. Thus , EFAs may hold advantages as predictors in Species Distribution Models ( SDMs) and for implementing multi-scale species monitoring programs. Here we describe a modelling framework to assess the predictive ability of EFAs as Essential Biodiversity Variables ( EBVs) against traditional datasets ( climate , land-cover) at several scales. We test the framework with a multi-scale assessment of habitat suitability for two plant species of conservation concern , both protected under the EU Habitats Directive , differing in terms of life history , range and distribution pattern ( Iris boissieri and Taxus baccata). We fitted four sets of SDMs for the two test species , calibrated with: interpolated climate variables; landscape variables; EFAs; and a combination of climate and landscape variables. EFA-based models performed very well at the several scales ( AUCmedian from 0.881 ± 0.072 to 0.983 ± 0.125) , and similarly to traditional climate-based models , individually or in combination with land-cover predictors ( AUCmedian from 0.882 ± 0.059 to 0.995 ± 0.083). Moreover , EFA-based models identified additional suitable areas and provided valuable information on functional features of habitat suitability for both test species ( narrowly vs. widely distributed) , for both coarse and fine scales. Our results suggest a relatively small scale-dependence of the predictive ability of satellite-derived EFAs , supporting their use as meaningful EBVs in SDMs from regional and broader scales to more local and finer scales. Since the evaluation of species ' conservation status and habitat quality should as far as possible be performed based on scalable indicators linking to meaningful processes , our framework may guide conservation managers in decision-making related to biodiversity monitoring and reporting schemes.