  Investigation of the optimal setting for body image prevention programmes is important to maximize the outcomes of such programmes. We examined the preferred setting for a school-based wellness programme called `` In Favour of Myself ''. A total of 259 girls ( mean 13.82 ± 0.64 years) were divided into a girls-only intervention group , a mixed-gender intervention and a waiting list control group. The participants completed self-report questionnaires at baseline , post-intervention ( 2 months) and at follow-up ( 3 months) examining changes in self-esteem , media literacy , body image and risk factors for eating disorders. The intervention group participants also completed a satisfaction questionnaire. Both intervention groups demonstrated statistically significant improvements in identifying advertising strategies ( p < 0.01) compared with the controls , with the girls-only arm ( p < 0.001) showing better results. Compared with the girls-only arm and the control group , the mixed-gender group demonstrated statistically significantly greater improvements in the internalization of pressure for thinness ( p < 0.004) , the body-esteem appearance subscale ( p < 0.025) and body-esteem body-weight subscale ( p < 0.012) as well as reductions in their perceived current body silhouettes and in the gap between their current and ideal body image ( p < 0.003). Body dissatisfaction was increased following the programme , although not in a statistically significant manner , with the worst negative effect observed in the girls-only arm. All other differences among the study arms did not show statistically significant differences. Mediation models revealed that body-esteem was directly mediated by group , with statistically significant mediation only in the mixed group. Current body image was mediated indirectly by group through media literacy ( i.e. , recognizing advertisement strategies and internalization of pressure for thinness) , with statistical significance only in the mixed-gender arm compared with the girls-only arm. Higher programme satisfaction was reported in the mixed-gender group ( 91 %) vs. the girls-only groups ( 79 %). These outcomes provide preliminary evidence indicating the superiority of a mixed-gender setting compared with a girls-only setting for delivering prevention programmes to 13- to 14-year-old adolescents to enhance their media literacy , positive self-esteem and body image. NCT02653586.