  Hypoglycemia is the most common and often treatment-limiting serious adverse effect of diabetes therapy. Despite being potentially preventable , hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes incurs substantial personal and societal burden. We review the epidemiology of hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes , discuss key risk factors , and introduce potential prevention strategies. Reported rates of hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes vary widely as there is marked heterogeneity in how hypoglycemia is defined , measured , and reported. In randomized controlled trials , rates of severe hypoglycemia ranged from 0.7 to 12 per 100 person-years. In observational studies , hospitalizations or emergency department visits for hypoglycemia were experienced by 0.2 ( patients treated without insulin or sulfonylurea) to 2.0 ( insulin or sulfonylurea users) per 100 person-years. Patient-reported hypoglycemia is much more common. Over the course of 6 months , 1-4 % non-insulin users reported need for medical attention for hypoglycemia; 1-17 % , need for any assistance; and 46-58 % , any hypoglycemia symptoms. Similarly , over a 12-month period , 4-17 % of insulin-treated patients reported needing assistance and 37-64 % experienced any hypoglycemic symptoms. Hypoglycemia is most common among older patients with multiple or advanced comorbidities , patients with long diabetes duration , or patients with a prior history of hypoglycemia. Insulin and sulfonylurea use , food insecurity , and fasting also increase hypoglycemia risk. Clinical decision support tools may help identify at-risk patients. Prospective trials of efforts to reduce hypoglycemia risk are needed , and there is emerging evidence supporting multidisciplinary interventions including treatment de-intensification , use of diabetes technologies , diabetes self-management , and social support. Hypoglycemia among patients with type 2 diabetes is common. Patient-centered multidisciplinary care may help proactively identify at-risk patients and address the multiplicity of factors contributing to hypoglycemia occurrence.