  Plastic resins are complex chemicals that contain toluene diisocyanate ( TDI) and/or trimellitic anhydride ( TMA) , which cause occupational allergies ( OA) , including respiratory allergies. Serum IgGs against TDI and TMA have been suggested as potential markers of the exposure status and as exploring cause of OA. Although TDI-specific IgG has been examined for suspected OA , TMA-specific IgG is not commonly evaluated in a urethane foam factory. This study therefore investigated both TDI- and TMA-specific IgGs in suspected OA patients and to evaluate the usefulness of the measurement of multiple chemical-specific IgG measurement for practical monitoring. Blood samples were collected from two male workers who developed respiratory allergies supposedly caused by occupational exposure to TDI and/or TMA for the presence of TDI- and TMA-specific IgGs. In addition , blood samples from 75 male workers from a urethane foam factory , along with 87 male control subjects , were collected in 2014 and tested for the same IgGs in 2014. The presence and levels of TDI- and TMA-specific serum IgGs were measured using dot blot assays. We found that controls had mean concentrations of TDI- and TMA-specific IgGs of 0.98 and 2.10 μg/mL , respectively. In the two workers with respiratory allergies , the TDI-specific IgG concentrations were 15.6 and 9.51 μg/mL , and TMA-specific IgG concentrations were 4.56 and 14.4 μg/mL , which are clearly higher than those in controls. Mean concentrations of TDI- and TMA-specific IgGs in the factory workers were 1.89 and 2.41 μg/mL , respectively , and are significantly higher than those of the controls ( P < 0.001 and P < 0.026 for TDI- and TMA-specific IgGs , respectively). The workers suspected of OA showed an evidently high level of TDI- and TMA-specific IgG , and these levels in workers at the urethane foam factory were also significantly higher than those in controls. In conclusion , the measurement of TDI- and TMA-specific IgG among workers using plastic resins is helpful to monitor their exposure status.