  We previously found higher level of endothelial cell ( EC) activation in patients who suffered from in-stent restenosis after bare-metal stenting compared to subjects who underwent drug-eluting stenting ( DES) showing no complications. Here we investigated the potential transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms by which everolimus attenuated EC activation after DES. We studied the effect of everolimus on E-selectin ( SELE) and VCAM1 mRNA levels when human coronary artery ( HCAECs) and human umbilical vein ECs were challenged with recombinant TNF-α ( 100 ng/mL) for 1-24 hours in the presence or absence of everolimus using 0.5 μM concentration locally maintained by DES. EC activation was evaluated via the levels of IL-1β and IL-6 mRNAs with miR-155 expression by RT-qPCR as well as the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa beta ( NF-κB) detected by fluorescence microscopy. To investigate the transcriptional regulation of E-selectin and VCAM-1 , TNF-α-induced enhancer RNA ( eRNA) expression at p65-bound enhancers in the neighboring genomic regions of SELE and VCAM1 genes , including SELE _ -11 Kb and VCAM1 _ -10 Kb , were measured in HCAECs. Mature and precursor levels of E-selectin and VCAM-1 repressor miR-181b were quantified to analyze the post-transcriptional regulation of these genes in HCAECs. Circulating miR-181b was analyzed in plasma samples of stented subjects by stem-loop RT-qPCR. TNF-α highly elevated E-selectin and VCAM-1 expression at transcriptional level in ECs. Levels of mature , pre- and pri-miR-181b were repressed in ECs by TNF-α , while everolimus acted as a negative regulator of EC activation via inhibited translocation of NF-κB p65 subunit into cell nuclei , lowered eRNA expression at SELE and VCAM1 genes-associated enhancers and modulated expression of their post-transcriptional repressor miR-181b. Significant negative correlation was observed between plasma miR-181b and soluble E-selectin and VCAM-1 in patients. In conclusion , everolimus attenuates EC activation via reduced NF-κB p65 translocation causing decreased E-selectin and VCAM-1 expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional level after DES.