  Anacardium occidentale L phenolic lipid ( LDT11) is used in traditional medicine as anti-inflammatory , astringent , antidiarrheal , anti-asthmatic and depurative. Phenolic derivatives , such as anacardic acid , extracted from cashew nut shell liquid ( CNSL) have demonstrated biological and pharmacological properties , and its profile makes it a candidate for the development of new anti-inflammatory agents. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the anti-inflammatory profile of a derivative , synthesized from LDT11 , on an in vitro cellular model. Organic synthesis of the phenolic derivative of CNSL that results in the hemi-synthetic compound LDT11. The cytotoxicity of the planned compound , LDT11 , was analyzed in murine macrophages cell line , RAW264 .7. The cells were previously treated with LDT11 , and then , the inflammation<symptom> was stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS) , in intervals of 6 h and 24 h. The analysis of the gene expression of inflammatory markers ( TNFα , iNOS , COX-2 , NF-κB , IL-1β and IL-6) , nitric oxide ( NO) dosage , and cytokine IL-6 were realized. The results showed that the phenolic derivative , LDT11 , influenced the modulatory gene expression. The relative gene transcripts quantification demonstrated that the LDT11 disclosed an immunoprotective effect against inflammation<symptom> by decreasing genes expression when compared with cells stimulated with LPS in the control group. The NO and IL-6 dosages confirmed the results found in gene expression. The present study evaluated the immunoprotective effect of LDT11. In addition to a significant reduction in the expression of inflammatory genes , LDT11 also had a faster and superior anti-inflammatory action than the commercial products , and its response was already evident in the test carried out six hours after the treatment of the cells. This study demonstrated LDT11 is potentially valuable as a rapid immunoprotective anti-inflammatory agent. Treatment with LDT11 decreased the gene expression of inflammatory markers , and the NO , and IL-6 production. When compared to commercial drugs , LDT11 showed a superior anti-inflammatory action.