  The World Health Organization ( WHO) reported that nearly 25 % of people will suffer from physical disability owing to the bone and joint problems until 2050. The condition of patients with this type of difficulty could be improved by increasing positive self-efficacy and instigating suitable medical treatment to implement self-efficacy for functional ability ( SEFA) and physical functional ability self-care. In this study , we aim to evaluate the influence of social support on SEFA in patients after total hip arthroplasty. This cross-sectional study used structural questionnaires , telephone appointments , and data collection to obtain patient characteristics , such as gender , age , educational level , and marital status. Questionnaires about social support and self-efficacy for functional ability ( SEFA) were sent to 200 patients at 3 months following a primary total hip replacement from September 2011 to December 2014. Factor analysis was used to categorize the dimensions of social support; the t test , analysis of variance ( ANOVA) , and correlation analysis were applied to screen factors influencing SEFA. Multiple regression analysis was employed to ascertain the relationships between patient characteristics , social support , and SEFA. In total , 134 patients responded to the questionnaires. Lower SEFA scores were observed in patients of an older age , unmarried patients , and those with a low level of education. Correlation analysis showed that emotional information and appraisal support , instrumental support , and SEFA were positively correlated. Multiple regression analysis was applied to ascertain the relationships between patient characteristics , social support , and SEFA. We identified significant coefficient values of- 0.187 for age , 5.344 for emotional information and appraisal support , and 1.653 for instrumental support. The results of this study demonstrated that in patients undergoing primary hip replacement , positive impacts on SEFA were observed in relation to emotional information , appraisal support and instrumental support. The results indicated that enhancing emotional information and appraisal support could improve a patient 's self-efficacy for functional ability.