  As unprofessional behaviour in physicians can compromise patient safety , all physicians should be willing and able to respond to lapses in professionalism. Although students endorse an obligation to respond to lapses , they experience difficulties in doing so. If medical educators knew how students respond and why they choose certain responses , they could support students in responding appropriately. The aim of this study was to describe medical students ' responses to professionalism lapses in peers and faculty staff , and to understand students ' motivation for responding or not responding. We conducted an explorative , qualitative study using template analysis , in which three researchers independently coded transcripts of semi-structured , face-to-face interviews. We purposefully sampled 18 student representatives convening at a medical education conference. Preliminary open coding of a data subset yielded an initial template , which was applied to further data and modified as necessary. All transcripts were coded using the final template. Finally , three sensitising concepts from the Expectancy-Value-Cost model were used to map participants ' responses. Students mentioned having observed lapses in professionalism in both faculty staff and peers. Students ' responses to these lapses were avoiding , addressing , reporting or initiating policy change. Generally , students were not motivated to respond if they did not know how to respond , if they believed responding was futile and if they feared retaliation. Students were motivated to respond if they were personally affected , if they perceived the individual as approachable and if they thought that the whole group of students could benefit from their actions. Expectancy of success , value and costs each appeared to be influenced by ( inter) personal and system factors. The Expectancy-Value-Cost model effectively explains students ' motivation for responding to lapses. The ( inter) personal and system factors influencing students ' motivation to respond are modifiable and can be used by medical educators to enhance students ' motivation to respond to lapses in professionalism observed in medical school.