  Carotid intima media thickness ( C-IMT) and aortic IMT ( A-IMT) increase in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus ( DM) , respectively. In both age groups IMT is used for early detection of macrovascular complications. In adult DM patients , A-IMT is still not a routine examination and is not used frequently. We aimed to determine whether there is an increase in A-IMT values measured from abdominal aorta besides traditional C-IMT in patients with type II DM and to determine parameters closely related to A-IMT in the same patient group. We included 114 type II DM patients and 100 healthy control subjects similar in age and sex in our study. Bilateral C-IMT and A-IMT values were measured by B-mode ultrasonography ( USG) in addition to anamnesis , physical examination and routine examinations of all patients. When the clinical , demographic and laboratory data of patients with and without DM were compared , there was a high level of glucose and HbA1c and low hemoglobin levels in the DM patient group. All other parameters were found to be similar between the two groups. When the B-mode USG findings were examined , it was found that C-IMT and A-IMT were increased in patients with DM , with the A-IMT increase being more prominent. A-IMT values were found to be strongly and positively correlated with age , systolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , blood urea nitrogen , DM onset time and HbA1c levels , and a negatively and significantly correlated with hemoglobin levels ( p < 0.05 , for each). In the regression model , the parameters correlating most closely with A-IMT were DM diagnosis onset time , HbA1c and hemoglobin levels ( p = 0.001 and β = 0.353 , p = 0.014 and β = 0.247 and p < 0.001 and β =- 0.406). As in pediatric DM patients also in adult DM patients A-IMT can easily be measured with new model USG devices. A-IMT must be measured during abdominal USG which is routine in adult DM patients. A-IMT is an easy , reproducible and non-invasive parameter that may be used in the diagnosis of macrovascular complications of adult type II DM.