  To evaluate financial relationships between obstetrician-gynecologists ( ob-gyns) and industry , including the prevalence , magnitude , and the nature of payments. We conducted a cross-sectional study in which we obtained a list of industry contributions to U.S. obstetricians and gynecologists through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments Database from August 1 , 2013 , to December 31 , 2015. These data were cross-referenced with the entire cohort of practicing obstetricians and gynecologists , who were identified using the National Provider Identification database , because not all practicing ob-gyns received payments. These payments were analyzed with respect to 1) types<pathogen> of payments , 2) demographic attributes of health care providers receiving payments , and 3) comparisons between obstetrician and gynecologist subspecialties. Continuous data were compared using the Mann-Whitney test for variables that were not normally distributed and with the t test for variables that are normally distributed. A total of 517,077 nonresearch payments , totaling $ 79,965,244 , were made to 23,292 ob-gyns. Physicians receiving payments were predominantly female , younger than 65 years old , allopathic physicians who graduated from U.S. medical schools in the late 1990s , and were board-certified subspecialists ( P < .001 for all). Half of all ob-gyns received payments of varying amounts from drug manufacturers , device manufacturers , or both , with most of the payments for honoraria , faculty compensation , or consulting. Female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery physicians received the largest median dollar amount; maternal-fetal medicine physicians received the smallest. Obstetricians and gynecologists receive a substantial amount of payments from industry. Most of these payments were for honoraria , faculty compensation , or consulting and totaled less than $ 400 per health care provider. Although this total amount is less than typically received by surgical providers , including orthopedic surgeons who account for the highest compensated group in total and mean industry payments , the median payment value for obstetrics and gynecology subspecialists surpasses the median payment to orthopedic surgeons. These financial relationships warrant further exploration with future research.