  Although participation of IL-6 in lung inflammation<symptom> has been widely elucidated , the transcriptional regulation of its generation in alveolar type II cells stimulated by TNF-α remain unclear. Here , we find that TNF-α significantly induces IL-6 production , and TNF-α induction of IL-6 is mainly regulated at transcriptional level. Upon stimulated by TNF-α , Activator Protein-1 ( AP-1)- mediated transcriptional activity is apparently increased in alveolar type II epithelial cells , which might be derived from elevated phosphorylation of JNK and subsequent activation of c-Jun. Either down-regulation of c-Jun or the AP-1 site mutation leads to significant reduction of IL-6 expression. In contrast , ectopic expression of c-Jun notably increases IL-6 generation. So , c-Jun , one of the AP-1 family members , plays a pivotal role in TNF-α-induced IL-6 generation. CCAAT/enhancer binding protein δ ( C/EBPδ) expression is significantly amplified by TNF-α , which may contribute to the rise of C/EBP activity in alveolar type II cells. C/EBPδ shRNA treatment results in attenuation of IL-6 expression in the cells , which is consistent with data by introduction of mutations into the C/EBP site in the promoter. However , overexpression of C/EBPδ greatly increases the IL-6 promoter activity. In addition , data regarding another transactivator in the family-C/EBPβ show that it does not affect IL-6 production. We also find that the IKK/NF-κB p65 pathway is activated in TNF-α-treated alveolar type II epithelial cells , and plays an essential role in positive regulation of IL-6 expression in TNF-α-treated alveolar type II epithelial cells via knockdown or forced expression of NF-κB p65 , or elimination of κB sites in the IL-6 promoter. Notably , IL-6 promoter-driven luciferase production in primary alveolar type II epithelial cells can also be increased by the ectopic expression of c-Jun , C/EBPδ , and NF-κB p65 , respectively. Collectively , our data provide insights into molecular mechanism involved in IL-6 expression in alveolar type II epithelial cells on TNF-α treatment , which provides a theoretical basis for specific inhibition of IL-6 production at the transcriptional level.