  Systematic review and meta-analysis OBJECTIVE.: To determine the differences in the sagittal spinopelvic parameters between the non-scoliotic controls , pre-operative , and different time points post-operative in Lenke 1 and 5 adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ( AIS). The post-operative changes in the sagittal profile of Lenke 1 and 5 AIS at varying time points after posterior spinal fusion ( PSF) has not been rigorously demonstrated; studies performed have had conflicting results. Sagittal spinal and pelvic parameters , T5-T12 thoracic kyphosis ( TK) , L1-S1 lumbar lordosis ( LL) , pelvic incidence ( PI) , sacral slope ( SS) , and sagittal vertical axis ( SVA) , for Lenke 1 and 5 pre-operatively , at immediate , less than 2-year , and more than 2-year post-operatively , and for non-scoliotic adolescents were searched. Differences in the sagittal spinopelvic parameters between pre-operative and the follow-ups and between the non-scoliotic and pre- and post-operative AIS subtypes was calculated through meta-analysis. A total of 22 studies on Lenke1 ( 1229 patients) , 13 studies on Lenke5 ( 437 patients) , and 18 studies on controls ( 1636 patients) were reviewed. Among all the measured variables , only PI in Lenke1 was significantly different between the final follow-up and controls , p < 0.05. In Lenke 1 SVA was significantly more anterior at the immediate post-operative compared to pre-operative , but continued moving posteriorly up to 2-year post-operative resulting in no significant difference in the SVA position between the final follow-up and pre-operative , p > 0.05. In Lenke 5 SVA was significantly more posterior at the immediate post-operative and more anterior at the final follow-up compared to the pre-operative measurements , p < 0.05. Continuous changes in the sagittal spinal parameters should be expected after PSF. Normalization of the sagittal spinal parameters appears to be the rule after PSF , and watchful waiting appears to be appropriate in this population when viewing the lateral X- ray post operatively. 4.