  TCPOBOP ( 1,4-Bis ( 2- ( 3,5-Dichloropyridyloxy)) benzene) is a constitutive androstane receptor ( CAR) agonist that induces robust hepatocyte proliferation and hepatomegaly without any liver injury or tissue loss. TCPOBOP-induced direct hyperplasia<disease> has been considered to be CAR-dependent with no evidence of involvement of cytokines or growth factor signaling. Receptor tyrosine kinases ( RTKs) , MET and EGFR , are known to play a critical role in liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy , but their role in TCPOBOP-induced direct hyperplasia<disease> , not yet explored , is investigated in the current study. Disruption of the RTK-mediated signaling was achieved utilizing MET KO mice along with Canertinib treatment for EGFR inhibition. Combined elimination of MET and EGFR signaling ( MET KO + EGFRi) , but not individual disruption , dramatically reduced TCPOBOP-induced hepatomegaly and hepatocyte proliferation. TCPOBOP-driven CAR activation was not altered in ( MET KO + EGFRi) mice , as measured by nuclear CAR translocation and analysis of typical CAR target genes. However , TCPOBOP induced cell cycle activation was impaired in ( MET KO + EGFRi) mice due to defective induction of cyclins , which regulate cell cycle initiation and progression. TCPOBOP-driven induction of FOXM1 , a key transcriptional regulator of cell cycle progression during TCPOBOP-mediated hepatocyte proliferation , was greatly attenuated in ( MET KO + EGFRi) mice. Interestingly , TCPOBOP treatment caused transient decline in HNF4α expression concomitant to proliferative response; this was not seen in ( MET KO + EGFRi) mice. Transcriptomic profiling revealed vast majority ( ∼ 40 %) of TCPOBOP-dependent genes mainly related to proliferative response , but not to drug metabolism , were differentially expressed in ( MET KO + EGFRi) mice. Taken together , combined disruption of EGFR and MET signaling lead to dramatic impairment of TCPOBOP-induced proliferative response without altering CAR activation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.