  The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of a novel , noninvasive perfusion enhancement system versus beds with integrated alternating pressure capabilities for the prevention of hospital-acquired sacral region ( sacral , coccygeal , and ischium) pressure injuries in a high-risk , acute care patient population. A prospective randomized trial of high-risk inpatients without preexisting sacral region pressure injuries was conducted. The sample comprised 431 randomly enrolled adult patients in a 300-bed tertiary care community teaching hospital. Subjects were randomly allocated to one of 2 groups: control and experimental. Both groups received `` standard-of-care '' pressure injury prevention measures per hospital policy , and both were placed on alternating pressure beds during their hospital stays. In addition , patients in the experimental group used a noninvasive perfusion enhancement system placed on top of their alternating pressure beds and recovery chairs throughout their hospital stay. Fischer 's exact probability test was used to compare group differences , and odds ratio ( OR) were calculated for comparing pressure injury rates in the experimental and control groups. Three hundred ninety-nine patients completed the trial; 186 patients were allocated to the experimental group and 213 patients to the control group. Eleven patients in the control group versus 2 in the experimental group developed hospital-acquired sacral region pressure injuries ( 51.6 % vs 1.07 %; P = .024). Control patients were 5.04 times more likely to develop hospital-acquired sacral region pressure injuries ( OR = 0.1996; 95 % CI , 0.0437-0.9125). Patients using a noninvasive perfusion enhancement system developed significantly fewer hospital-acquired sacral pressure injuries than those using an alternating pressure bed without the perfusion enhancement system. These findings suggest that a perfusion enhancement system enhances the success of use of pressure redistributing beds for prevention of hospital-acquired sacral pressure injuries.