  The aim of this report was dual: ( a) to describe the step by step standardized intraoperative neural monitoring ( IONM) procedure for recurrent laryngeal nerve ( RLN) and external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve focusing on percutaneous IONM method , and ( b) evaluation and outcomes of intermittent IONM in 237 endoscopic thyroidectomy via bilateral areolar approach cases. A 10-mm curved incision is made along the margin of the right areola at the 2 to 4 o'clock position for the 30-degree endoscope. Bilaterally 5-mm incisions are required on the edges of the areola at the 11 to 12 o'clock positions as accessory operating ports. Ball-tip , monopolar , single-use , standard stimulating probe with a 10-cm handle and 9-cm shaft is adopted percutaneously for IONM. As reference , on the dominant thyroid lesion<symptom> side , a 0.5-cm circle is drawn with the center at the intersection of a line 2-cm lateral to the anterior median line and a line 2-cm above the line connecting the bilateral clavicular heads. After ensuring with ultrasonography that no vessels are within the puncture passage , the skin is pierced with an 18-G syringe needle. After withdrawing the needle , the probe is carefully inserted through the tract. IONM is performed according to standards of equipment set up , anesthesia , tube positioning verification tests , and electromyography determinations. A total of 277 nerves at risk were favorably monitored with percutaneous probe stimulation. RLN , vagus nerve , and external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve were successfully determined. There were no instances of IONM malfunction , equipment displacement , or interference with the other endoscopic instruments. IONM probe insertion incision determined no scarring or morbidity in the neck. The incidence of RLN monolateral temporary palsy was 6 %. Standardized monitoring in endoscopic thyroidectomy via bilateral areolar approach is feasible. IONM was implemented by means of percutaneous stimulating probe.