  We have explored a better method to preserve and store human medically amputated large size samples. The approach involved developing a special embalming solution and procedures for biopreservation and biostorage of a large-sized sample as a whole specimen rather than dissected small parts. Evaluation of the effect of our special embalming solution and procedures on whole human amputated extremities compared with excised small tissues was conducted. Histological and morphological techniques and elemental analyses were utilized to assess the effects of our new method using the special embalming solution. Whole remains and excised tissues ( skin , muscle , saphenous nerve , and femoral artery) were immersed in a special embalming solution for 6 , 12 , and 24 months , respectively. Then samples from whole remains and excised tissues were paraffin embedded and Hematoxylin-Eosin staining was performed. Transmission electron microscopy was performed to detect the microstructure of the samples. At the same time , concentrations of chemical elements in the embalming solution from whole remains and excised tissues were separately determined by using inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry. The morphological structure of tissues was well preserved at 6 and 12 months , and few chemical elements , especially trace elements , leached into the embalming fluid. The macroelements leached into the fluid earlier than the trace elements , but there were some differences in the ultrastructure after preservation for 24 months between tissues excised before and after embalming. Over time , the types and concentrations of chemical elements in the embalming fluid increased. The trace elements in the whole remains were preserved better than those in the removed tissues , and trace elements in muscles and femoral artery were better preserved than those in the skin and saphenous nerve. The special embalming fluid can preserve fresh amputated remains well for a short time ( less than 24 months) , and performs better for the whole remains than excised tissues. This specific embalming fluid should be further studied to achieve higher quality preservation of different tissues for a longer period of time.