  Most patients with Parkinson 's disease , Parkinson 's disease dementia , and dementia with Lewy bodies do not carry mutations in known disease-causing genes. The aim of this study was to identify a novel gene implicated in the development of these disorders. Our study was done in three stages. First , we did genome-wide linkage analysis of an Italian family with dominantly inherited Parkinson 's disease to identify the disease locus. Second , we sequenced the candidate gene in an international multicentre series of unrelated probands who were diagnosed either clinically or pathologically with Parkinson 's disease , Parkinson 's disease dementia , or dementia with Lewy bodies. As a control , we used gene sequencing data from individuals with abdominal aortic<disease> aneurysms<disease> ( who were not examined neurologically). Third , we enrolled an independent series of patients diagnosed clinically with Parkinson 's disease and controls with no signs or family history of Parkinson 's disease , Parkinson 's disease dementia , or dementia with Lewy bodies from centres in Portugal , Sardinia , and Taiwan , and screened them for specific variants. We also did mRNA and brain pathology studies in three patients from the international multicentre series carrying disease-associated variants , and we did functional protein studies in in-vitro models , including neurons from induced pluripotent stem-like cells. Molecular studies were done between Jan 1 , 2008 , and Dec 31 , 2017. In the initial kindred of ten affected Italian individuals ( mean age of disease onset 59 · 8 years ( SD 8 · 7)) , we detected significant linkage of Parkinson 's disease to chromosome 14 and nominated LRP10 as the disease-causing gene. Among the international series of 660 probands , we identified eight individuals ( four with Parkinson 's disease , two with Parkinson 's disease dementia , and two with dementia with Lewy bodies) who carried different , rare , potentially pathogenic LRP10 variants; one carrier was found among 645 controls with abdominal aortic<disease> aneurysms<disease>. In the independent series , two of these eight variants were detected in three additional Parkinson 's disease probands ( two from Sardinia and one from Taiwan) but in none of the controls. Of the 11 probands from the international and independent cohorts with LRP10 variants , ten had a positive family history of disease and DNA was available from ten affected relatives ( in seven of these families). The LRP10 variants were present in nine of these ten relatives , providing independent-albeit limited-evidence of co-segregation with disease. Post-mortem studies in three patients carrying distinct LRP10 variants showed severe Lewy body pathology. Of nine variants identified in total ( one in the initial family and eight in stage 2) , three severely affected LRP10 expression and mRNA stability ( 1424 +5 delG , 1424 +5 G → A , and Ala212Serfs * 17 , shown by cDNA analysis) , four affected protein stability ( Tyr307Asn , Gly603Arg , Arg235Cys , and Pro699Ser , shown by cycloheximide-chase experiments) , and two affected protein localisation ( Asn517del and Arg533Leu; shown by immunocytochemistry) , pointing to loss of LRP10 function as a common pathogenic mechanism. Our findings implicate LRP10 gene defects in the development of inherited forms of α-synucleinopathies. Future elucidation of the function of the LRP10 protein and pathways could offer novel insights into mechanisms , biomarkers , and therapeutic targets. Stichting ParkinsonFonds , Dorpmans-Wigmans Stichting , Erasmus Medical Center , ZonMw-Memorabel programme , EU Joint Programme Neurodegenerative Disease Research ( JPND) , Parkinson 's UK , Avtal om Läkarutbildning och Forskning ( ALF) and Parkinsonfonden ( Sweden) , Lijf and Leven foundation , and cross-border grant of Alzheimer Netherlands-Ligue Européene Contre la Maladie d'Alzheimer ( LECMA).