  Synaptic plasticity is involved in daily activities but abnormal plasticity may be deleterious. In this study , we found that motor plasticity could be modulated by suppressing the premotor cortex with the theta burst form of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. Such changes in motor plasticity were associated with reduced learning of a simple motor task. We postulate that the premotor cortex adjusts the amount of motor plasticity to modulate motor learning through heterosynaptic metaplasticity. The present results provide an insight into how the brain physiologically coordinates two different areas to bring them into a functional network , a concept that could be employed to intervene in diseases with abnormal plasticity. Primary motor cortex ( M1) plasticity is known to be influenced by the excitability and prior activation history of M1 itself. However , little is known about how its plasticity is influenced by other areas of the brain. In the present study on humans of either sex who were known to respond to theta burst stimulation from previous studies , we found plasticity of M1 could be modulated by suppressing the premotor cortex with the theta burst form of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. Motor plasticity was distorted and disappeared 30 min and 120 min , respectively , after premotor excitability was suppressed. Further evaluation revealed that such changes in motor plasticity were associated with impaired learning of a simple motor task. We postulate that the premotor cortex modulates the amount of plasticity within M1 through heterosynaptic metaplasticity , and that this may impact on learning of a simple motor task previously shown to be directly affected by M1 plasticity. The present results provide an insight into how the brain physiologically coordinates two different areas to bring them into a functional network. Furthermore , such concepts could be translated into therapeutic approaches for diseases with aberrant plasticity.