  To identify the incidence , presenting features , treatment , and clinical course of optic disc pit maculopathy ( ODPM) in the United Kingdom ( UK). A 2-year nationwide prospective population-based study. All new incident cases of ODPM presenting to UK ophthalmologists using the British Ophthalmic Surveillance Unit monthly reporting system. All reporting ophthalmologists were sent an initial questionnaire requesting data on previous medical and ophthalmic history , presentation details , investigation findings , and management. A further questionnaire was sent at 12 months post diagnosis to ascertain further outcome data. Visual acuity at initial presentation , at 1 year , and after any intervention. Foveal involvement and optical coherence tomography ( OCT) findings , including retinal layers affected , and the location and size of the optic disc pit. Management , including observation , vitrectomy , and associated procedures. There were 74 confirmed new cases , giving an annual incidence of approximately 1 per 2 million. Complete data were available on 70 patients ( 70 eyes) at baseline and 68 after 1 year. There were 35 ( 50 %) female patients with a mean age of 35 years ( range , 3-82 years). Visual acuity at baseline ranged from 6/5 to hand movements. In 43 patients ( 61 %) subretinal fluid ( SRF) was present , whereas 27 ( 39 %) had intraretinal fluid only. The presence of SRF was associated with worse vision and foveal involvement. Of the 53 eyes initially observed with 1-year follow-up , 10 ( 19 %) deteriorated and 9 ( 16 %) improved on OCT; eyes with SRF were more likely to worsen and those without SRF were more likely to improve. Fifteen of the 70 patients ( 21 %) at baseline had primary surgery and a further 10 had deferred surgery within 1 year of presentation; 19 of these 25 eyes ( 76 %) showed anatomic success with a dry fovea at 1 year of follow-up , and 15 ( 60 %) had a greater than 0.1 logMAR improvement in visual acuity. The incidence and presenting features of ODPM were defined. Patients with SRF had worse vision and were more likely to deteriorate than patients with intraretinal fluid only. Surgery was anatomically successful in 75 % of cases. Patients without SRF tended to remain stable with observation.