  Although adolescence is a sensitive developmental period in oral health , the social equalization hypothesis that suggests health inequalities attenuate in adolescence has not been examined. This study analyses whether the socioeconomic gap and ethnic disadvantage in oral health among children aged 5 reduces among adolescents aged 15. Data from the cross-sectional Children 's Dental Health Survey 2013 were analysed , comprising of 8541 children aged 5 , 8 , 12 and 15 attending schools in England , Wales and Northern Ireland. Oral health indicators included decayed and filled teeth , plaque , gingivitis<disease> and periodontal health. Ethnicity was measured using the 2011 UK census ethnic categories. Socioeconomic position was measured by family , school and residential deprivation. Negative binomial and probit regression models estimated the levels of oral health by ethnicity and socioeconomic position , adjusted for demographic and tooth characteristics. The predicted rate of decayed teeth for White British/Irish children aged 5 was 1.54 ( 95 % CI 1.30-1.77). In contrast , the predicted rate for Indian and Pakistani children was about 2-2.5 times higher. At age 15 , ethnic differences had reduced considerably. Family deprivation was associated with higher levels of tooth decay among younger children but not among adolescents aged 15. The influence of residential deprivation on the rate of tooth decay and filled teeth was similar among younger and older children. Moreover , inequalities in poor periodontal health by residential deprivation was significantly greater among 15-year-old children compared to younger children. This study found some evidence of smaller ethnic and family socioeconomic differences in oral health among British adolescents compared to younger children. However , substantial differences in oral health by residential deprivation remain among adolescents. Community levels of deprivation may be particularly important for the health of adolescents.