  1. Does activity participation improve over time in the first year after stroke? 2. What is the association of depressive symptoms on retained activity participation 12-months post-stroke adjusting for neurological stroke severity and age? 3. Is an improvement in activity participation associated with a decrease in depressive symptoms between 3- and 12-months post-stroke? Longitudinal observational study of activity participation and depressive symptoms in ischemic stroke survivors. A total of 100 stroke survivors with mild neurological stroke severity. A total of 100 stroke survivors were recruited from five metropolitan hospitals and assessed at 3- and 12-months post-stroke using measures of activity participation ( Activity Card Sort-Australia ( ACS-Aus)) and depressive symptoms ( Montgomery-Asberg Depression<symptom> Rating Scale Structured Interview Guide ( MADRS-SIGMA)). There was a significant association between time ( pre-stroke to 3-months post-stroke) and current activity participation ( -5.2 activities 95 % CI -6.8 to -3.5 , p < 0.01) and time ( pre-stroke to 12-months) and current activity participation ( -2.1 activities 95 % CI -3.7 to -0.5 , p = 0.01). At 12-months post-stroke , a one-point increase in depressive symptoms was associated with a median decrease of 0.3 % ( 95 % CI -1.4 % to -0.1 % , p = 0.02) of retained overall activity participation , assuming similar neurological stroke severity and age. A decrease in depressive symptoms between 3- and 12-months post-stroke was associated with an improvement of 0.31 ( 95 % CI -0.5 to -0.1 , p = 0.01) in current activity participation. Activity participation improves during the first year of recovery post-stroke in stroke survivors with mild neurological stroke severity and is associated with depressive symptoms over time and at 12-months post-stroke. Implications for rehabilitation Improvements in participation occur in the first 3-months post-stroke and continue to a lesser degree in the first year after stroke. Depressive symptoms are associated with lower participation at 12-months. A multidimensional approach targeting depressive symptoms and increasing participation in the early months post-stroke and throughout the first-year after stroke is recommended to increase overall recovery following stroke. A focus on increasing leisure activity participation is recommended to improve depressive symptoms.