  Understanding the molecular mechanism of protein adsorption on solids is critical to their applications in materials synthesis and tissue engineering. Although the water phase at the surface/water interface has been recognized as three types: bulk water , intermediate water phase and surface-bound water layers , the roles of the water and surface in determining the protein adsorption are not clearly identified , particularly at the quantitative level. Herein , we provide a methodology involving the combination of microsecond strengthen sampling simulation and force integration to quantitatively characterize the water-induced contribution and the peptide-surface interactions into the adsorption free energy. Using hydroxyapatite and graphene surfaces as examples , we demonstrate how the distinct interfacial features dominate the delicate force balance<symptom> between these two thermodynamics parameters , leading to surface preference/resistance to peptide adsorption. Specifically , the water layer provides sustained repelling force against peptide adsorption , as indicated by a monotonic increase in the water-induced free energy profile , whereas the contribution from the surface-peptide interactions is thermodynamically favorable to peptide adsorptions. More importantly , the revealed adsorption mechanism is critically dictated by the distribution of water phase , which plays a crucial role in establishing the force balance<symptom> between the interactions of the peptide with the water layer and the surface. For the HAP surface , the charged peptide exhibits strong binding affinity to the surface , due to the controlling contribution of peptide-surface interaction in the intermediate water phase. The surface-bound water layers are observed as the origin of bioresistance of solid surfaces toward the adsorption of charge-neutral peptides. The preferred peptide adsorption on the graphene , however , is dominated by the surface-induced component at the water layers adjacent to the surface. Our results further elucidate that the intermediate water phase significantly shortens the effective range of the surface dispersion force , in contrast to the observation on the hydrophilic surface.