  Tumor angiogenesis is considered as an important prognostic factor. With an increasing emphasis on imaging evaluation of the tumor microenvironment , dynamic contrast enhanced ( DCE) CT has evolved as an important functional technique in this setting. Yet many questions remain as how and when these functional measurements should be performed for each agent and tumor type , and what quantitative models should be used in the fitting process. In this study , we evaluated the variations of perfusion measurement on DCE-CT for rectal cancer patients from ( 1) different tracer kinetic models , ( 2) different scan acquisition lengths and ( 3) different scan intervals. A total of seven commonly used models as the adiabatic approximation to the homogeneity model ( AATH) , the adiabatic approximation to the homogeneity model with fixed transit time ( AATHFT) , the Tofts model ( TM) , the extended Tofts model ( ETM) , Patlak model , Logan model and the model-free deconvolution methods were studied. Akaike 's Information Criterion ( AIC) was used to identify the best fitting model. The interchangeability of different models was further evaluated using Bland-Altman analysis. All models gave comparable blood volume measurement except the Patlak method. While for volume transfer constant ( Ktrans) estimation , AATHFT , AATH and ETM generated reasonable agreement among each other but not for the other models. Regarding the blood flow measurement , none of the any two models were interchangeable. In addition , the perfusion parameters were compared with four acquisition length ( 45s , 65s , 85s , and 105s) and four temporal intervals ( 1s , 2s , 3s and 4s). No significant difference was observed in Ktrans , blood volume ( BV) and blood flow ( BF) measurements when comparing data acquired over 65 seconds with data acquired over 105 seconds using any DCE-models in this study. Yet increasing the temporal interval leads to significant overestimation of blood flow in deconvolution method. In conclusion , the perfusion measurement is indeed model dependent and image acquisition/processing technique dependent. The radiation dose of DCE-CT was on average 1.5-2 times of an abdomen/pelvic CT , which is not insubstantial. To take the DCE-CT forward as a biomarker in oncology , prospective studies should be carefully designed with the optimal image acquisition and analysis technique.