  We aimed to analyze patient characteristics of term neonates with the diagnosis of stroke between 2006 and 2017 at the 3rd level Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of the Szent János Hospital. We conducted a retrospective and prospective analysis including 18 newborns with stroke. Presentation , imaging methods , etiology and clinical context were discussed. All patients had a follow-up at 2 years of age or later. Subject of the study- In the past 10 years 17 term born and one premature neonate born at 36 weeks of age were diagnosed with stroke in our unit. All patients were born at good condition generally with high Apgar scores ( 9 ± 1). Cesarean section was performed in 4 cases. With an estimated incidence of one in 1600-4000 births , the incidence of perinatal stroke in our unit was found to be the same as mentioned in the international databases. Regarding imaging method , cranial ultrasound scan do not visualise arterial ischaemic stroke therefore head MRI is recommended. Neurological<symptom> symptoms<symptom> of the patients presented in the first two days of life. Etiology included thrombophilia ( 4/18) , infection ( 4/18) , vascular malformation ( 2/18) , moderate asphyxia ( 2/18) and pre-eclampsia ( 2/18). Middle cerebral artery was involved in 50 % while the anterior cerebral artery was affected in 33 %. The stroke occured in the left hemisphaerium in 44 % , in the right side in 39 % and was bilateral in 17 %. In two cases the stroke was diagnosed in utero. Early childhood developmental support resulted in average or above average gross and fine motor development and cognitive outcome. Presenting neurological<symptom> symptoms<symptom> typically occur in the first few days after birth when perinatal stroke need to be considered among the broad spectrum of neonatal illnesses. Normal developmental outcome can be achieved even in cases of extensive brain damage with early childhood developmental support. Severely impaired development was observed in the cases of in utero stroke. Inherited prothrombotic disorders may have implications for subsequent pregnancies of the mother.