  This change to the Tactical Combat Casualty Care ( TCCC) Guidelines that updates the recommendations for management of suspected tension pneumothorax for combat casualties in the prehospital setting does the following things: ( 1) Continues the aggressive approach to suspecting and treating tension pneumothorax based on mechanism of injury and respiratory distress that TCCC has advocated for in the past , as opposed to waiting until shock<symptom> develops as a result of the tension pneumothorax before treating. The new wording does , however , emphasize that shock<symptom> and cardiac arrest may ensue if the tension pneumothorax is not treated promptly. ( 2) Adds additional emphasis to the importance of the current TCCC recommendation to perform needle decompression ( NDC) on both sides of the chest on a combat casualty with torso trauma who suffers a traumatic cardiac arrest before reaching a medical treatment facility. ( 3) Adds a 10-gauge , 3.25-in needle/ catheter unit as an alternative to the previously recommended 14-gauge , 3.25-in needle/catheter unit as recommended devices for needle decompression. ( 4) Designates the location at which NDC should be performed as either the lateral site ( fifth intercostal space ( ICS) at the anterior axillary line ( AAL)) or the anterior site ( second ICS at the midclavicular line ( MCL)). For the reasons enumerated in the body of the change report , participants on the 14 December 2017 TCCC Working Group teleconference favored including both potential sites for NDC without specifying a preferred site. ( 5) Adds two key elements to the description of the NDC procedure: insert the needle/ catheter unit at a perpendicular angle to the chest wall all the way to the hub , then hold the needle/catheter unit in place for 5 to 10 seconds before removing the needle in order to allow for full decompression of the pleural space to occur. ( 6) Defines what constitutes a successful NDC , using specific metrics such as: an observed hiss of air escaping from the chest during the NDC procedure; a decrease in respiratory distress; an increase in hemoglobin oxygen saturation; and/or an improvement in signs of shock<symptom> that may be present. ( 7) Recommends that only two needle decompressions be attempted before continuing on to the `` Circulation '' portion of the TCCC Guidelines. After two NDCs have been performed , the combat medical provider should proceed to the fourth element in the `` MARCH '' algorithm and evaluate/treat the casualty for shock<symptom> as outlined in the Circulation section of the TCCC Guidelines. Eastridge 's landmark 2012 report documented that noncompressible hemorrhage<symptom> caused many more combat fatalities than tension pneumothorax .1 Since the manifestations of hemorrhagic shock<symptom> and shock<symptom> from tension pneumothorax may be similar , the TCCC Guidelines now recommend proceeding to treatment for hemorrhagic shock<symptom> ( when present) after two NDCs have been performed. ( 8) Adds a paragraph to the end of the Circulation section of the TCCC Guidelines that calls for consideration of untreated tension pneumothorax as a potential cause for shock<symptom> that has not responded to fluid resuscitation. This is an important aspect of treating shock<symptom> in combat casualties that was not presently addressed in the TCCC Guidelines. ( 9) Adds finger thoracostomy ( simple thoracostomy) and chest tubes as additional treatment options to treat suspected tension pneumothorax when further treatment is deemed necessary after two unsuccessful NDC attempts-if the combat medical provider has the skills , experience , and authorizations to perform these advanced interventions and the casualty is in shock<symptom>. These two more invasive procedures are recommended only when the casualty is in refractory shock<symptom> , not as the initial treatment.