  Some shiftwokers in the long-haul transportation industries ( i.e. road , rail , sea , air) have the opportunity to sleep in on-board rest facilities during duty periods. These rest facilities are typically fitted with a seat with a maximum back angle to the vertical of 20 ° , 40 ° , or 90 °. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of `` back angle '' on the quantity and quality of sleep obtained in a seat during a daytime nap. Six healthy adults ( 3 females aged 27.0 years and 3 males aged 22.7 years) each participated in three conditions. For each condition , participants had a 4-h sleep opportunity in a bed ( 02:00-06:00 h) followed by a 4-h sleep opportunity in a seat ( 13:00-17:00 h). The only difference between conditions was in the back angle of the seat to the vertical during the seat-based sleep periods: 20 ° ( upright) , 40 ° ( reclined) , and 90 ° ( flat). Polysomnographic data were collected during all sleep episodes. For the seat-based sleep episodes , there was a significant effect of back angle on three of four measures of sleep quantity , i.e. total sleep time , slow-wave sleep , and rapid eye movement<symptom> ( REM) sleep , and three of four measures of sleep quality , i.e. latency to REM sleep , arousals , and stage shifts. In general , the quantity and quality of sleep obtained in the reclined and flat seats were better than those obtained in the upright seat. In particular , compared to the flat seat , the reclined seat resulted in similar amounts of total sleep and slow-wave sleep , but 37 % less REM sleep; and the upright seat resulted in 29 % less total sleep , 30 % less slow-wave sleep , and 79 % less REM sleep. There are two main mechanisms that may explain the results. First , it is difficult to maintain the head in a comfortable position for sleep when sitting upright , and this is likely exacerbated during REM sleep , when muscle<symptom> tone is very low. Second , an upright posture<symptom> increases sympathetic activity and decreases parasympathetic activity , resulting in a heightened level of physiological arousal.