  To evaluate the cost-utility of three lymphadenectomy strategies in the management of low-risk endometrial carcinoma. A decision analysis model compared three lymphadenectomy strategies in women undergoing minimally invasive surgery for low-risk endometrial carcinoma: 1) routine lymphadenectomy in all patients , 2) selective lymphadenectomy based on intraoperative frozen section criteria , and 3) sentinel lymph node mapping. Costs and outcomes were obtained from published literature and Medicare reimbursement rates. Costs categories consisted of hospital , physician , operating room , pathology , and lymphedema treatment. Effectiveness was defined as 3-year disease-specific survival adjusted for the effect of lymphedema ( utility = 0.8) on quality of life. A cost-utility analysis was performed comparing the different strategies. Multiple deterministic sensitivity analyses were done. In the base-case scenario , routine lymphadenectomy had a cost of $ 18,041 and an effectiveness of 2.79 quality-adjusted life-years ( QALYs). Selective lymphadenectomy had a cost of $ 17,036 and an effectiveness of 2.81 QALYs , whereas sentinel lymph node mapping had a cost of $ 16,401 and an effectiveness of 2.87 QALYs. With a difference of $ 1,005 and 0.02 QALYs , selective lymphadenectomy was both less costly and more effective than routine lymphadenectomy , dominating it. However , with the lowest cost and highest effectiveness , sentinel lymph node mapping dominated the other modalities and was the most cost-effective strategy. These findings were robust to multiple sensitivity analyses varying the rates of lymphedema and lymphadenectomy , surgical approach ( open or minimally invasive surgery) , lymphedema utility , and costs. For the estimated 40,000 women undergoing surgery for low-risk endometrial carcinoma each year in the United States , the annual cost of routine lymphadenectomy , selective lymphadenectomy , and sentinel lymph node mapping would be $ 722 million , $ 681 million , and $ 656 million , respectively. Compared with routine and selective lymphadenectomy , sentinel lymph node mapping had the lowest costs and highest quality-adjusted survival , making it the most cost-effective strategy in the management of low-risk endometrial carcinoma.