  Mitochondrial quality control is crucial to the development of angiotensin II ( AngII)- induced cardiac hypertrophy. PTEN induced putative kinase 1 ( PINK1) is rapidly degraded in normal mitochondria but accumulates in damaged mitochondria , triggering autophagy to protect cells. PINK1 mediates mitophagy in general , but whether PINK1 mediates AngII-induced mitophagy and the effects of PINK1 on AngII-induced injury are unknown. This study was designed to investigate the function of PINK1 in an AngII stimulation model and its regulation of AngII-induced mitophagy. We studied the function of PINK1 in mitochondrial homeostasis in AngII-stimulated cardiomyocytes via RNA interference-mediated knockdown and adenovirus-mediated overexpression of the PINK1 protein. Mitochondrial membrane potential ( MMP) , reactive oxygen species ( ROS) production , adenosine triphosphate ( ATP) content , cell apoptosis rates and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy were measured. The expression of LC3B , Beclin1 and p62 was measured. Mitochondrial morphology was examined via electron microscopy. Mitophagy was detected by confocal microscopy based on the co-localization of lysosomes and mitochondria. Additionally , endogenous PINK1 , phosphorylated PINK1 , mito-PINK1 , total Parkin , cyto-Parkin , mito-Parkin and phosphorylated Parkin protein levels were measured. Cardiomyocytes untreated by AngII had very low levels of total and phosphorylated PINK1. However , in the AngII stimulation model , the MMP was decreased , and the levels of total and phosphorylated PINK1 were increased. After PINK1 was knocked down , Parkin translocation to the mitochondria was inhibited. Moreover , levels of phosphorylated Parkin were reduced , and autophagy markers were downregulated. MMP and ATP contents were further reduced , ROS production and the apoptotic rate were further increased , and myocardial hypertrophy was further aggravated compared with those in the AngII group. However , PINK1 overexpression promoted Parkin translocation and phosphorylation , autophagy markers were upregulated , and myocardial injury was reduced. In addition , the effects of PINK1 overexpression were reversed by autophagy inhibitors. Decreased MMP induced by AngII maintains the stability of PINK1 , causing PINK1 autophosphorylation. PINK1 activation promotes Parkin translocation and phosphorylation and increases autophagy to clear damaged mitochondria. Thus , PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy has a compensatory , protective role in AngII-induced cytotoxicity.