  People who witness a horrific event are at risk of suffering from acute psychological disorders , potentially leading to chronic post-traumatic symptoms and severe medico-psycho-social complications. Traumatised individuals suffer from psychological damage that is initially indescribable: they are often unable to ask for care in the immediate aftermath of an event. Afterwards , traumatic events and their post-traumatic consequences are still often hidden or minimised by patients for reasons linked to the disorder itself ( inexpressibility , shame , depressive thoughts , fear of stigmatisation , etc.). The provision of the initial stage of care has a major impact on the long-term prognosis. Although official French recommendations remain vague , and scientific studies lack power , there is a developing professional consensus on practices , and developments in neurobiology are opening up new opportunities to validate them. Drawing upon our clinical experience and clinical principles provided by our mentors , our aim is to clarify the phases of psychotherapeutic treatment , and we describe three practices: immediate care ( `` defusing '') , post-immediate care ( `` French debriefing '' or `` post-immediate psychotherapeutic intervention '') and follow-up care ( `` deferred debriefing '' and psychotherapy). Although the international literature considers these phases as separate , here we describe a continuity of talking therapies that support long-term remission. The effectiveness of the combination of immediate , post-immediate and follow-up care has been confirmed by events surrounding the recent Paris and Nice attacks. Specific psychotherapeutic principles are unrelated to a particular school of psychotherapy ( notably cognitive and behavioural therapies , analytical therapies , various forms of hypnosis , and eye-movement therapies , etc.). Instead , they refer to specific principles that are effective in the treatment of post-traumatic psychiatric disorders. By helping the individual to verbalise their experience , talking re-establishes dissociated psychological functions. A process of reconsolidation enables sensory memory to be integrated into verbal memory. Supported by psychotherapy , language can be used to discover , or construct , a new sense of meaning for the individual. A single session of post-immediate or deferred debriefing has been found to have a miraculous effect on post-traumatic symptoms , confirmed by follow-up. When disorders are chronic and complex , however , treatment can last several months or years. In each case , although certain therapeutic principles are key , other psychotherapeutic and pharmacological treatments should be adapted to the individual 's clinical situation , and the symptoms they present.