  Accurate neuronavigation is essential for optimal outcomes in therapeutic brain stimulation. MRI-guided neuronavigation , the current gold standard , requires access to MRI and frameless stereotaxic equipment , which is not available in all settings. Scalp-based heuristics depend on operator skill , with variable reproducibility across operators and sessions. An intermediate solution would offer superior reproducibility and ease-of-use to scalp measurements , without requiring MRI and frameless stereotaxy. We present and assess a novel neuronavigation method using commercially-available , inexpensive 3D head scanning , computer-aided design , and 3D-printing tools to fabricate form-fitted headsets for individuals that hold a stimulator , such as an rTMS coil , in the desired position over the scalp. 20 individuals underwent scanning for fabrication of individualized headsets designed for rTMS of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ( DLPFC). An experienced operator then performed three trials per participant of three neuronavigation methods: MRI-guided , scalp-measurement ( BeamF3 method) , and headset placement , and marked the sites obtained. Accuracy ( versus MRI-guidance) and reproducibility were measured for each trial of each method. Within-subject accuracy ( against a gold-standard centroid of three MRI-guided localizations) for MRI-guided , scalp-measurement , and headset methods was 3.7 ± 1.6 mm , 14.8 ± 7.1 mm , and 9.7 ± 5.2 mm respectively , with headsets significantly more accurate ( M = 5.1 , p = 0.008) than scalp-measurement methods. Within-subject reproducibility ( against the centroid of 3 localizations in the same modality) was 3.7 ± 1.6 mm ( MRI) , 4.2 ± 1.4 ( scalp-measurement) , and 1.4 ± 0.7 mm ( headset) , with headsets achieving significantly better reproducibility than either other method ( p < 0.0001). 3D-printed headsets may offer good accuracy , superior reproducibility and greater ease-of-use for stimulator placement over DLPFC , in settings where MRI-guidance is impractical.