  To determine if oral ethanol self-administration produces a conditioned place preference ( CPP) and to determine if ethanol pre-exposure conditions during the juvenile/adolescent period alter the conditioned effects of ethanol and subsequent ethanol self-administration. Modified conditioned place preference paradigm allowed rats to orally self-administer ethanol followed by short duration exposure to conditioning chambers. Ethanol produced a conditioned place aversion even though rats self-administered ethanol following the final conditioning test. Juvenile/adolescent pre-exposure to ethanol decreased the place aversion but did not produce place preference. Juvenile/adolescent rats consumed sweetened 5 % ethanol in the home-cage either during continuous access or intermittent access with water restriction that promoted binge-like consumption. A control group had water access during the 4-week period. Adult rats were conditioned using a modified CPP paradigm wherein rats were water-restricted overnight before being placed in operant chambers to respond for 5 % ethanol for 7 min. Following the operant session , rats were placed in the conditioning chamber for 8 min. After the conditioning post-test , rats self-administered ethanol during daily operant sessions. Ethanol produced a conditioned place aversion in water access rats and the continuous access rats. Binge-like ethanol consumption induced by intermittent access with water restriction abolished the place aversion , but did not allow place preference to develop. After conditioning , continuous access rats self-administered ethanol above ~ 0.6 g/kg which was similar to rats with binge-like experience via intermittent access. Results suggest that oral ethanol self-administration elicits aversive properties in this model even though ethanol continues to maintain self-administration. Pre-exposure to ethanol during the juvenile/adolescent period may produce tolerance to ethanol 's aversive properties only when consumed in a binge-like manner with water restriction. More exploration is needed to understand how behavioral history can influence sensitivity to ethanol 's rewarding and aversive properties and subsequent ethanol consumption or self-administration.