  Despite evidence that strength and conditioning ( S&C) programs decrease injury risk and increase sport performance , young females are rarely offered S&C programs comparable to those of their male counterparts. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the current body of available literature regarding S&C in adolescent female athletes , describe potential benefits , and generate recommendations for S&C programs for female adolescent athletes. This systematic review was performed in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. Systematic searches of the PubMed and Google Scholar databases were conducted using the following keywords: ` female athletes , ' ` injury prevention , ' ` adolescent , ' ` physical fitness , ' ` strength , ' ` female adolescent , ' and ` conditioning. ' Studies included in this review evaluated the effectiveness of S&C protocols and/or the habits and attitudes of coaches and athletic trainers working with female adolescent athletes. Seven articles evaluating S&C programs for the adolescent female athlete were used as the basis for this systematic review. These articles described current protocols and/or factors that should be taken into account when designing S&C programs. The identified articles focused on improving the strength of adolescent female athletes , decreasing the risk of injury , and exposing female athletes to the benefits of S&C that are routinely afforded to their male counterparts. Despite the critical potential benefits of S&C training , such as improved landing mechanics , coaches and athletic trainers do not routinely implement S&C programs for female adolescent athletes. The lack of such programs is largely due to misconceptions surrounding female athletes , such as the perception that females fear bulking up. S&C programs for adolescent female athletes should incorporate stretching of the hip adductors , targeted hamstring , gluteal and quadriceps strengthening , and a synergistic adaptation model , which tailors training protocols to an athlete 's pubertal stage.