  T-lymphocyte ( T-cell) invasion into the brain parenchyma is a major consequence of traumatic brain injury ( TBI). However , the role of T-cells in the post-TBI functional outcome and secondary inflammatory processes is unknown. We explored the dynamics of T-cell infiltration into the cortex after TBI to establish whether the infiltration relates to post-injury functional impairment/recovery and progression of the secondary injury. TBI was induced in rats by lateral fluid-percussion injury , and the acute functional impairment was assessed using the neuroscore. Animals were killed between 1-90 d post-TBI for immunohistochemical analysis of T-cell infiltration ( CD3) , chronic macrophage/microglial reaction ( CD68) , blood-brain barrier ( BBB) dysfunction ( IgG) , and endophenotype of the cortical injury. Furthermore , the occurrence of spontaneous<symptom> seizures<symptom> and spike-and-wave discharges were assessed using video-electroencephalography. The number of T-cells peaked at 2-d post-TBI , and then dramatically decreased by 7-d post-TBI ( 5 % of 2-d value). Unexpectedly , chronic T-cell infiltration at 1 or 3 months post-TBI did not correlate with the severity of chronic inflammation<symptom> ( p > 0.05) or BBB dysfunction ( p > 0.05). Multiple regression analysis indicated that inflammation<symptom> and BBB dysfunction is associated with 48 % of the perilesional T-cell infiltration even at the chronic time-point ( r = 0.695 , F = 6.54 , p < 0.05). The magnitude of T-cell infiltration did not predict the pathologic endophenotype of cortical injury , but the higher the number of T-cells in the cortex , the poorer the recovery index based on the neuroscore ( r =- 0.538 , p < 0.05). T-cell infiltration was not associated with the number or duration of age-related spike-and-wave discharges ( SWD). Nevertheless , the higher the number of SWD , the poorer the recovery index ( r =- 0.767 , p < 0.5). These findings suggest that acute infiltration of T-cells into the brain parenchyma after TBI is a contributing factor to poor post-injury recovery.