  The therapeutic time window of acute stroke is short. Decision on the use of intravenous thrombolysis is based on well-defined criteria. Any delay in the transport to a designated stroke centre decreases the odds of therapeutic success. In Hungary , the admission rate of stroke patients peaks on Monday , the number gradually decreasing by the end of the week. This phenomenon has long been suggested to be due to the lack of emergency care approach. According to the literature , however , returning to work following a holiday is a risk factor for acute stroke. A similar phenomenon is well-known in veterinary medicine , a condition in horses referred to as ` Monday morning disease '. In our study , we analysed the distribution of admissions due to acute stroke by the day of the week in 4 independent data sources. The number of patients admitted to the Szent J치nos Hospital , Budapest , Hungary with stroke and that of emergency ambulance transports in the whole city of Budapest due to acute stroke were analysed in the period between January 1 and March 31 , 2009. The distribution of thrombolytic interventions reflecting hospitalizations for hyperacute stroke was analysed based on data of the Szent J치nos Hospital in 2009-2012 , and on national data from 2006-2012. Descriptive statistics was used to present the data. The variation between daily admission was compared by chi-square test. The proportion of daily admission of stroke patients admitted to the Szent J치nos Hospital was the highest at the beginning of the week ( 18 % on Monday , and 21 % on Tuesday) and the lowest on the weekend ( 9 % and 9 % on Saturday and Sunday , respectively). The distribution of ambulance transports in Budapest due to acute stroke tended to be similar ( 15 % and 15 % on Monday and Tuesday , whereas 13 % and 12 % on Saturday and Sunday , respectively) on different days of the week. No such Monday peak could be observed in a single centre regarding thrombolytic interventions: 18 % and 19 % of the total of 80 thrombolytic interventions in the Szent J치nos Hospital were performed on Monday and Sunday , respectively. At the national level the higher Monday rate is obvious: during a 7-year period 16.0 % , 12.7 % , and 13.5 % of all thrombolytic interventions in Hungary were performed on Monday , Saturday and Sunday , respectively. Monday preference of stroke is not exclusively caused by the lack of emergency care approach , and the phenomenon is not consistent at the individual hospital level in cases undergoing thrombolysis.