  Postoperative delirium<symptom> is associated with poor long-term outcomes and increased mortality. General anesthetic drugs may contribute to delirium<symptom> because they increase cell-surface expression and function of α5 subunit-containing γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptors , an effect that persists long after the drugs have been eliminated. Dexmedetomidine , an α2 adrenergic receptor agonist , prevents delirium<symptom> in patients and reduces cognitive deficits in animals. Thus , it was postulated that dexmedetomidine prevents excessive function of α5 γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptors. Injectable ( etomidate) and inhaled ( sevoflurane) anesthetic drugs were studied using cultured murine hippocampal neurons , cultured murine and human cortical astrocytes , and ex vivo murine hippocampal slices. γ-Aminobutyric acid type A receptor function and cell-signaling pathways were studied using electrophysiologic and biochemical methods. Memory and problem-solving behaviors were also studied. The etomidate-induced sustained increase in α5 γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptor cell-surface expression was reduced by dexmedetomidine ( mean ± SD , etomidate: 146.4 ± 51.6 % vs. etomidate + dexmedetomidine: 118.4 ± 39.1 % of control , n = 8 each). Dexmedetomidine also reduced the persistent increase in tonic inhibitory current in hippocampal neurons ( etomidate: 1.44 ± 0.33 pA/pF , n = 10; etomidate + dexmedetomidine: 1.01 ± 0.45 pA/pF , n = 9). Similarly , dexmedetomidine prevented a sevoflurane-induced increase in the tonic current. Dexmedetomidine stimulated astrocytes to release brain-derived neurotrophic factor , which acted as a paracrine factor to reduce excessive α5 γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptor function in neurons. Finally , dexmedetomidine attenuated memory and problem-solving deficits after anesthesia. Dexmedetomidine prevented excessive α5 γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptor function after anesthesia. This novel α2 adrenergic receptor- and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-dependent pathway may be targeted to prevent