  This study was aimed to explore the effects of miR-29a-5p expression and its target gene TPX2 ( target protein for Xenopus kinesin-like protein 2) on endometrial cancer ( EC) devel on EC development and to assess the prognostic impacts of TPX2. Microarray-based GEO and TCGA ( the Cancer Genome Atlas) EC expression data were used to identify differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNAs. The observed potential target relationship between miR-29a-5p and TPX2 was verified using TargetScan and luciferase reporter assays. The mRNA and protein expression levels of miR-29a-5p and TPX2 were confirmed by qRT-PCR and western blot , respectively. Associations between TPX2 expression and patient prognosis were assessed using Kaplan-Meier and log-rank assays. Changes in EC-derived cell proliferation , invasion and apoptosis after exogenous miR-29a-5p and TPX2 over-expression and/or silencing were assessed using CCK-8 ( cell counting kit-8) , colony formation , Transwell and flow cytometry assays , respectively. We found that in primary EC tissues the expression of miR-29a-5p was down-regulated and the expression of TPX2 was up-regulated. We also found that low expression of TPX2 were associated with a better prognosis , and vice versa. Subsequent exogenous miR-29a-5p over-expression and TPX2 silencing could inhibit EC-derived cell proliferation and invasion , and to induce apoptosis. We also found that miR-29a-5p might target and repress TPX2 , thereby inhibiting EC-derived cell proliferation and invasion and enhancing apoptosis. We conclude that miR-29a-5p could inhibit the proliferation and invasion of EC-derived cells and enhance the apoptosis of EC-derived cells via TPX2 down-regulation. A high TPX2 expression in primary EC tissues was found to be associated with a poor prognosis. As such , these biomarkers may serve as promising prognostic indicators. EC: Endometrial cancer; 3 '- UTR: 3 '- untranslated regions; TPX2: target protein for Xenopus kinesin-like protein 2; TCGA: the Cancer Genome Atlas; UCEC: uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; OD: optical density; FCM: flow cytometry; EMT: epithelial-mesenchymal transition.