  The current guidelines imply that basic medical diagnostics for dementia should be provided by general practitioners in cooperation with other specialists such as neurologists and psychiatrists. The aims of this paper were to 1) compare the dementia patients of general practice residents whose care is co-managed by neurology/psychiatry residents with those whose care is not; 2) identify the patient variables associated with the utilization of neurological and psychiatric specialists; and 3) describe the frequency of imaging used for dementia patients in primary care. The analyses utilized data from 485 individuals who screened positive for dementia in primary care ( PWD). Clinical variables and the utilization of specialists were assessed via medical records and face-to-face interviews. The factors associated with the utilization of specialists were assessed using multivariate linear regression and included age , sex , relationship status , cognitive impairment , depression<symptom> , activities of daily living , and formal diagnosis of dementia. Our results show that 89 out of 485 study participants ( 18.4 %) were referred to specialists 12 months prior to assessment. Of these 89 individuals , 14.6 % ( n = 13) did not receive imaging diagnostics , while 39.3 % ( n = 35) received brain imaging by CT scan and 46.1 % ( n = 41) by MRI. PWD referred to specialists differed from those not referred , in age , relationship status , and the presence of a formal diagnosis. Our multivariate analysis revealed that younger age ( OR = 0.95; 95 %- confidence interval 0.90-0.99; p = 0.04) and higher functional impairment ( OR = 1.15; 95 %- confidence interval 1.02-1.30; p = 0.02) were associated with a visit to a specialist. Only 1 out of every 4 to 5 individuals who have screened positive for dementia have visited a specialist in psychiatry or neurology. While in general , women utilized specialists less often than men , younger and more functionally impaired patients were more likely to be sent to a specialist by their treating general practitioner. Almost 90 % of the patients sent to a specialist received cranial neuroimaging , suggesting high adherence to diagnostic guidelines in specialized care.