  Providing durable long-term pain control for patients with complex regional pain syndrome<disease> ( CRPS) is challenging. A multidisciplinary approach focused on physical therapy is frequently prescribed , with opioids and invasive procedures reserved for those challenged by functional progression. In this study , we examined the long-term efficacy of intrathecal drug delivery systems ( IDDS) in patients with CRPS at our institution. Patients with CRPS implanted with an IDDS between 2000 and 2013 who had four or more years of continuous follow-up were included in the analysis. The outcome variables of interest were pain intensity and oral opioid intake. The primary predictor of interest was dose of intrathecal opioids , with ziconotide , bupivacaine , and clonidine characterized as binary secondary predictors. Of the 1,653 IDDS identified , 62 were implanted primarily for CRPS-related pain. Of these , 26 had four or more years of complete follow-up data. Pain scores did not significantly decrease over time , and we observed no correlation between pain intensity and use of any intrathecal medication. Although oral opioid intake decreased over time , intrathecal opioid dose did not affect oral opioid consumption. Ziconotide was associated with a hastening of the decrease in oral opioid intake , whereas the presence of bupivacaine paradoxically increased oral opioid intake. Our study demonstrates that intrathecal opioid dose was not associated with long-term decreases in oral opioid intake. Additionally , ziconotide was associated with a decrease in oral opioid intake over the four-year follow-up , and bupivacaine was associated with an increase in oral opioid intake. Our study examines the long-term effectiveness of intrathecal medications in managing pain in patients with complex regional pain syndrome<disease>. We present a detailed follow-up over four years for 26 patients , tracking oral opiate intake , pain scores , and intrathecal pump settings. Our findings suggest that intrathecal opiates may not be effective in reducing oral opiate intake , ziconotide may hasten a decrease in intake , and bupivacaine may lead to an increase in intake.