  In cancer patients , an ischemic stroke can be seen as both a direct effect of cancer and a complication of treatment. This condition can negatively affect the follow-up and treatment of these patients. For this research , we aimed to evaluate the clinical features , stroke types and etiological features of ischemic stroke patients with histories of cancer or found to have cancer during the aetiological investigation. We retrospectively evaluated 100 patients ( 57 males , 43 females) who were hospitalized with acute stroke and determined to have the presence of cancer or a cancer history during the aetiological investigation between 2011 and 2016. All the demographic features , stroke types and localizations , National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale ( NIHSS) scores , Rankin Scale scores , durations of cancer and cancer treatments were recorded. The mean age of the patients was 67.07 ± 10.9 years old , the median NIHSS score was 5 , and the median Rankin Scale score was 4. While 79 % of patients had ischemic stroke risk factors , 21 % did not. Atherosclerotic stroke was the most common stroke type ( 49 % , n = 49) and cryptogenic strokes were detected in 21 % ( n = 21). In addition , 63 % of the patients had chronic cancer ( later than 6 months) , 31 % of the patients had recent cancer histories ( less than 6 months) , and 29 % of the patients had metastases. Among all the malignancies , lung cancer ( n = 23) , gastrointestinal cancer ( n = 20) and gynaecological-breast cancer ( n = 16) were the three most common. Moreover , 37 % of the patients underwent chemotherapy , 29 % underwent radiotherapy , and 88 % of the patients had Carotid/Vertebral Doppler USG abnormalities. Similar to what is stated in the literature , an atherosclerotic stroke was the most common type of stroke in the cancer patients. Stroke risk factors were not detected in 21 % of the patients , and in the majority of the patients , atherosclerotic changes in the carotid artery were observed in the Doppler examinations. In the aetiology and prognosis of ischemic stroke , it is important to keep in mind the existence of cancer in addition to the classical stroke risk factors.