  Historically , documentation of prehospital combat casualty care has been relatively nonexistent. Without documentation , performance improvement of prehospital care and evacuation through data collection , consolidation , and scientific analyses can not be adequately accomplished. During recent conflicts , prehospital documentation has received increased attention for point-of-injury care as well as for care provided en route on medical evacuation platforms. However , documentation on casualty evacuation ( CASEVAC) platforms is still lacking. Thus , a CASEVAC dataset was developed and maintained by the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment ( SOAR) , a nonmedical , rotary-wing aviation unit , to evaluate and review CASEVAC missions conducted by their organization. A retrospective review and descriptive analysis were performed on data from all documented CASEVAC missions conducted in Afghanistan by the 160th SOAR from January 2008 to May 2015. Documentation of care was originally performed in a narrative after-action review ( AAR) format. Unclassified , nonpersonally identifiable data were extracted and transferred from these AARs into a database for detailed analysis. Data points included demographics , flight time , provider number and type , injury and outcome details , and medical interventions provided by ground forces and CASEVAC personnel. There were 227 patients transported during 129 CASEVAC missions conducted by the 160th SOAR. Three patients had unavailable data , four had unknown injuries or illnesses , and eight were military working dogs. Remaining were 207 trauma casualties ( 96 %) and five medical patients ( 2 %). The mean and median times of flight from the injury scene to hospital arrival were less than 20 minutes. Of trauma casualties , most were male US and coalition forces ( n = 178; 86 %). From this population , injuries to the extremities ( n = 139; 67 %) were seen most commonly. The primary mechanisms of injury were gunshot wound<disease> ( n = 89; 43 %) and blast injury ( n = 82; 40 %). The survival rate was 85 % ( n = 176) for those who incurred trauma. Of those who did not survive , most died before reaching surgical care ( 26 of 31; 84 %). Performance improvement efforts directed toward prehospital combat casualty care can ameliorate survival on the battlefield. Because documentation of care is essential for conducting performance improvement , medical and nonmedical units must dedicate time and efforts accordingly. Capturing and analyzing data from combat missions can help refine tactics , techniques , and procedures and more accurately define wartime personnel , training , and equipment requirements. This study is an example of how performance improvement can be initiated by a nonmedical unit conducting CASEVAC missions.