  Cisplatin ( CIS) is an influential chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of several types of malignant solid tumors , but its clinical use is related with ototoxicity. Oleuropein ( OLE) is a natural antioxidant and scavenging free radicals. Here , we first explore the efficacy of OLE in pancreas against to the toxicity of CIS and also analyses its mechanism. Fifty-six Sprague-Dawley rats were equally divided into eight groups , including , control group which received 7 mg/kg/day CIS intraperitoneally ( i.p.) for 24 h , groups treated with doses of 50 , 100 , and 200 mg/kg OLE i.p. for 3 days , and groups which received same dose of CIS with three doses of OLE. After the treatments , animals were sacrificed. The oxidative DNA damage ( 8-hydroxy-2 '- deoxyguanosine ( 8-OHdG)) , total oxidative stress ( TOS) , total antioxidant status ( TAS) , and malondialdehyde ( MDA) levels were evaluated in the pancreas. The histopathology of the pancreas was examined using three different staining methods: hematoxylin-eosin , periodic acid-Schiff , and alcian blue. Serum was provided to assess pancreatic function the lipase and amylase values. The results showed that CIS significantly increased the level of TOS , MDA , and 8-OHdG in tissue as compared to the control group. Moreover , severe tissue damages were detected in the pancreas. Whereas , OLE at high dose significantly decreased the formations of 8-OHdG , the level of MDA , and increased levels of TAS in tissue samples. In the CIS group , the levels of amylase and lipase increased compared with the control group. However , there were statistically significant differences among the CIS group and the CIS + OLE groups in the values of both amylase and lipase. In addition , histopathological findings observed in CIS group in the pancreatic tissue alleviated in CIS + OLE groups. We hope that the results of this study will provide an impetus for future investigations of novel treatment strategies for OLE in pancreas due to CIS.