  Coordinated landing from a jump requires preparation , which must include appropriate positioning and configuration of the landing limbs and body<symptom> to be successful. While well studied in mammals , our lab has been using the cane toad ( Rhinella marinus) as a model for understanding the biomechanics of controlled landing in anurans , animals that use jumping or bounding as their dominant mode of locomotion. In this paper , we report new results from experiments designed to explore how different modes of sensory feedback contribute to previously identified features of coordinated landing in toads. More specifically , animals in which vision , hindlimb proprioception<symptom> or vestibular feedback were removed , underwent a series of hopping trials while high-speed video was used to record and characterize limb<symptom> movements<symptom> and electromyographic activity was recorded from a major elbow extensor ( m. anconeus). Results demonstrate that altering any sensory system impacts landing behavior , though loss of vision had the least effect. Blind animals showed significant differences in anconeus EMG timing relative to controls , but forelimb and hindlimb movements as well as the ability to successfully decelerate the body using the forelimbs were not affected. Compromising hindlimb proprioception<symptom> led to distinctly different forelimb kinematics. Though EMG patterns were disrupted , animals in this condition were also able to decelerate after impact , though with less control , regularly allowing their trunks to make ground contact during landing. Animals with compromised vestibular systems showed the greatest deficits , both in takeoff and landing behavior , which were highly variable and rarely coordinated. Nevertheless , animals in this condition demonstrated EMG patterns and forelimb kinematics similar to those in control animals. The fact that no ablation entirely eliminates all aspects of landing preparation , suggests that its underpinnings are complex and that that there is no single sensory trigger for its initiation.