  Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer 's disease ( AD). Piperine is the major bio-active component of pepper. The aim of this study was to determine potential effects of chronic treatment with piperine on underlying biochemical , histological and behavioral changes following intracerebroventricular streptozotocin injection. Adult male Wistar rats , weighing 200-220g , were randomly assigned into 9 groups. In order to provide an animal model of the AD , streptozotocin ( STZ) was bilaterally injected ( 3 mg/kg) into the lateral ventricles ( ICV) twice on days 1 and 3. The rats were given piperine at various doses ranging from 2.5 , 5 , 10 and 20 mg/kg for 28 consecutive days , starting from 7 days after the second STZ injection. Morris water maze test was used to evaluate the spatial memory. One day after completion of the behavioural study , animals were decapitated and the bilateral hippocampi dissected for biochemical and histolopathological studies. Results showed that markedly spatial memory<symptom> impairment<symptom> is well correlated with increment of lipid peroxidation and decline in the antioxidant status and neuronal loss of the hippocampus in the STZ-injected rats. Interestingly , results showed that the cytoarchitecture of the hippocampal sub-regions retained their integrity during chronic treatment with piperine , and the behavioural test performed revealed that chronic piperine administration for 28 days showed improvements in cognitive performance and attenuated oxidative stress in the hippocampus tissue following ICV-STZ injection in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover , piperine supplementation at a physiologically relevant dose ( 5mg/kg/day) successfully restored antioxidant status and produced dose-dependent effects by promotion of neuronal survival rate in the hippocampus , which is comparable to that positive beneficial effects observed in donepezil ( 1 mg/kg/day , i.p) treated group. These findings suggest that long-term piperine supplementation improved STZ-induced cognitive impairment and enhanced the same survival rate of hippocampal neurons as in group receiving donepezil via ROS-related redox regulation and antioxidant defence mechanism potentiation in the hippocampus. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.