  To provide a five-step conceptual framework to promote community inclusivity among nurses and nursing students , using the example of nursing student with a disability. The value of cultural diversity , including characteristics such as socioeconomic status , ability/disability , sexual affection , and ethnicity and/or race , is integrated into bachelor 's nursing programs. Yet , often the focus centers on patient care rather than to fellow nursing students or registered nurses. Discursive paper describing a five-step health promotion course framework to promote inclusion for students with disabilities into the nursing community. Using the health promotion course platform , this framework demonstrates the integration of important issues such as well-being to those of cultural diversity , inclusivity , and feeling belonging to a community , which are essential prerequisites toward achieving cultural competence. Health promotion courses provide an optimal platform to teach students about the social environment , well-being and inclusivity , and gives students the opportunity to reflect on the impact of their attitudes and behaviors on social inclusivity in their student community , and later , on their nursing community. Using the example of nursing students with disabilities , the five-step framework incorporates the concepts of social well-being , health , and community inclusivity. Nursing students belong to a culturally diverse community including individuals with disabilities. A single course on community inclusivity is insufficient; the approach of inclusivity must be woven throughout the nursing curriculum. As approximately 15 % of the world 's population has a disability , nurses must possess an understanding of individuals with a disability as an aspect of cultural diversity. It is the responsibility of programs to instill in nursing students , the ability to appreciate and work with culturally diverse student and registered nurses. Such goals not only reflect nursing goals , but also strengthen the cohesion and inclusivity of the nursing community. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.