  The present observation based research was designed to evaluate the influence of occupational human exposure to metallic mercury ( Hg °) vapor on the biomarkers of selenium status involved in the antioxidant defense system. For this purpose we determined Hg and selenium ( Se) concentrations in body fluids , the markers of antioxidant effect measured as an activity of Se-dependent enzymes ( red blood cell and plasma glutathione peroxidase: GPx1-RBC and GPx3-P) , concentration of selenoprotein P in the plasma ( SeP-P) and total antioxidant activity in the plasma ( TAA-P) in 131 male workers from a chloralkali plant exposed to Hg ° and 67 non-exposed males ( control group). The mRNA expression levels of glutathione peroxidases ( GPX1 , GPX3) , selenoprotein P ( SEPP1) , thioredoxin reductase 1 ( TRXR1) , thioredoxin 1 ( TRX1) , peroxiredoxins ( PRDX1 , PRDX2) were also examined in the leukocytes of peripheral blood. Hg concentration in the blood ( Hg-B) and urine ( Hg-U) samples was determined using the thermal decomposition amalgamation/atomic absorption spectrometry ( TDA-AAS) method and Se concentrations in plasma ( Se-P) and urine ( Se-U) using the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ( ICP-MS) method. Activities of GPx1-RBC , GPx3-P and TAA-P were determined using the kinetic and spectrophotometric method , respectively. Gene expression analysis was performed using the quantitative Real-Time PCR. The results showed significant higher Hg levels among the Hg °- exposed workers in comparison to control group ( 12-times higher median for Hg-B and almost 74-times higher median for Hg-U concentration in chloralkali workers). Se-P was also significantly higher ( Me ( median): 82.85 μg/L ( IQR ( interquartile range) 72.03-90.28 μg/L) for chloralkali workers vs. Me: 72.74 μg/L ( IQR 66.25-80.14 μg/L) for control group; p = 0.0001) but interestingly correlated inversely with Hg-U in chloralkali workers suggesting depletion of the Se protection among the workers with the highest Hg-U concentration. The mRNA level for GPX1 , PRXD1 were markedly but significantly higher in the workers compared to the control group. Moreover , concentrations of Hg-B and Hg-U among the workers were significantly positively correlated with the levels of selenoprotein P at both the mRNA and selenoprotein levels. In the multivariate model , after adjusting to cofounders ( dental amalgam fillings , age , BMI , job seniority time , smoking) , we confirmed that Hg-U concentration was inversely correlated with genes expression of TRXR1. This is the first comprehensive assessment of the impact of occupational exposure of workers to Hg ° at both the mRNA and selenoprotein levels , with investigation of fish intake obtained by means of a questionnaire. These findings suggest that exposure to Hg ° alters gene expression of the antioxidant enzymes and the level of Se-containing selenoproteins.