  To explore and describe the experience of social adjustment of adolescents with Tourette syndrome<disease> in Taiwan. Although Tourette syndrome<disease> is a non-life-threatening disease , the inherent difficulties in controlling tics and comorbidities can cause long-term physical and psychological issues , as well as social maladjustment among adolescents. Good social adjustment can promote mental health among adolescents. Currently , it is not clear how adolescents with Tourette syndrome<disease> can self-adjust and maintain harmonious social interaction with others. Descriptive phenomenological approach was used in this study. Four criteria were applied to establish the trustworthiness or methodological rigour. Sixteen adolescents with Tourette syndrome<disease> were recruited by purposive sampling from a medical centre in Northern Taiwan. Semistructured one-on-one interviews were performed from March 2014-April 2015 for data collection. Every participant was interviewed once or twice , and each interview lasted for duration of around 60-90 min. Data were analysed with Giorgi 's phenomenological method for data analysis. Three themes were identified from the adolescent ' interviews. The themes were included visible and invisible destitution , moulding a socially acceptable self and coexisting friends and foes. Adolescents with Tourette syndrome<disease> experienced that tics are often not understood nor accepted during social interactions with others. However , with age and autonomy of adolescents , they were able to adjust and develop a socially acceptable body image and maintain amicable social interactions with others. Accompanied by positive thinking , support from friends and families , the adolescents could achieve good social adjustments for living with Tourette syndrome<disease>. The experiences and feelings highlighted in this study can bring awareness to nurses and healthcare professionals for developing interventions that promote healthy social adjustment and mental health for adolescents with Tourette