  Previous studies have found more frequent increases in dietary intake and nonrestorative nocturnal sleep during the luteal phase than in the follicular phase , but few studies have investigated how increased energy intake at dinner influences sleep by considering the correlation between female hormone and cardiac autonomic nervous system ( ANS) activity. This study examined the effects of energy intake at dinner on ANS activity during nighttime sleep in order to evaluate restorative sleep in healthy women. We also examined whether ANS activity is associated with female hormone dynamics. Twenty-four healthy collegiate women participated in this randomized crossover trial. Each was assigned to receive a High Energy Dinner ( HED) or Low Energy Dinner ( LED) treatment. Energy ratios of each test meal ( breakfast , lunch , and dinner) to total energy intake were 1:1:2 and 1:2:1 for HED and LED treatments , respectively. Each participant wore an ECG recorder before dinner and removed it upon waking the next morning. Power spectral analysis of heart rate variability was used to calculate low frequency ( LF) , high frequency ( HF) , and total spectral power ( TP). Cardiac sympathetic ( SNS) and parasympathetic ( PNS) nervous system activity were evaluated as LF/HF and HF/TP , respectively. Mean HF/TP for the entire sleeping period was lower with HED treatment compared to LED treatment ( 41.7 ± 11.4 vs. 45.0 ± 12.13 , P = .034). Intergroup comparisons of the initial 3-h sleeping period revealed that LF/HF ( 0.87 ± 0.82 vs. 0.66 ± 0.82 , P = .013) and HF/TP ( 45.6 ± 13.9 vs. 51.5 ± 11.8 , P = .002) were higher and lower , respectively , with HED treatment compared to LED treatment. Progesterone levels were positively correlated with LF/HF with LED treatment , and negatively correlated with HF/TP with both HED and LED treatments. Higher energy intake at dinner increases and decreases SNS and PNS activities , respectively , resulting in nonrestorative nocturnal sleep. In addition , a negative correlation was observed between progesterone and PNS activity , highlighting the difficulty of increasing PNS activity during sleep in the luteal phase compared to the follicular phase.