  Patients who do not disclose their sexuality , including men who do not disclose same-sex behaviour , are difficult to characterise through traditional epidemiological approaches such as interviews. Using a recently developed method to detect large networks of viral sequences from time-resolved trees , we localised non-disclosed men who have sex with men ( MSM) in UK transmission networks , gaining crucial insight into the behaviour of this group. For this phylogenetic analysis , we obtained HIV<pathogen> pol sequences from the UK HIV<pathogen> Drug Resistance Database ( UKRDB) , a central repository for resistance tests done as part of routine clinical care throughout the UK. Sequence data are linked to demographic and clinical data held by the UK Collaborative HIV<pathogen> Cohort study and the national HIV/AIDS reporting system database. Initially , we reconstructed maximum likelihood phylogenies from these sequences , then sequences were selected for time-resolved analysis in BEAST if they were clustered with at least one other sequence at a genetic distance of 4 · 5 % or less with support of at least 90 %. We used time-resolved phylogenies to create networks by linking together nodes if sequences shared a common ancestor within the previous 5 years. We identified potential non-disclosed MSM ( pnMSM) , defined as self-reported heterosexual men who clustered only with men. We measured the network position of pnMSM , including betweenness ( a measure of connectedness and importance) and assortativity ( the propensity for nodes sharing attributes to link). 14 405 individuals were in the network , including 8452 MSM , 1743 heterosexual women and 1341 heterosexual men. 249 pnMSM were identified ( 18 · 6 % of all clustered heterosexual men) in the network. pnMSM were more likely to be black African ( p < 0 · 0001) , less likely to be infected with subtype B ( p = 0 · 006) , and were slightly older ( p = 0 · 002) than the MSM they clustered with. Mean betweenness centrality was lower for pnMSM than for MSM ( 1 · 31 , 95 % CI 0 · 48-2 · 15 in pnMSM vs 2 · 24 , 0 · 98-3 · 51 in MSM; p = 0 · 002) , indicating that pnMSM were in peripheral positions in MSM clusters. Assortativity by risk group was higher than expected ( 0 · 037 vs -0 · 037 , p = 0 · 01) signifying that pnMSM were linked to each other. We found that self-reported heterosexual men were more likely to link MSM and heterosexual women than heterosexual women were to link MSM and heterosexual men ( Fisher 's exact test p = 0 · 0004; OR 2 · 24) but the number of such transmission chains was small ( only 54 in total vs 32 in women). pnMSM are a subgroup distinct from both MSM and from heterosexual men. They are more likely to choose sexual partners who are also pnMSM and might exhibit lower-risk sexual behaviour than MSM ( eg , choosing low-risk partners or consistently using condoms). Heterosexual men are the group most likely to be diagnosed with late-stage disease ( ie , low CD4 counts) and non-disclosed MSM might put female partners at higher risk than heterosexual men because non-disclosed MSM have male partners. Hence , pnMSM require specific consideration to ensure they are included in public health interventions. National Institutes of Health.