  To present a case of a cesarean scar ectopic pregnancy treated by laparoscopic resection followed by isthmocele repair. Case report SETTINGS: University Gynecology Clinic of the Emergency Clinical City Hospital Timișoara , România. Cesarean scar pregnancy is a rare form of ectopic pregnancy. In the last years its prevalence has risen due to the increasing number of cesarean section. An early diagnosis can lead to an early management decreasing the risk of life-threatening complication such as uterine rupture and massive haemorrhage. Many therapeutic options are available , medical or surgical , but the current literature suggests that laparoscopic approach with ectopic pregnancy resection is the best option. We present the case of a 30 years old women with a previous cesarean section in 2012 , who was diagnosed by transvaginal ultrasound with a 6 weeks live pregnancy implanted at the level of the cesarean scar. The initial management was administration of a two-doses methotrexate protocol , but after 72 hours the transvaginal ultrasound showed an embryo with cardiac activity still present associated with an increased beta hCG level. Laparoscopic surgical treatment was decided aiming to extract the pregnancy and repair the scar defect. A similar case was presented by Mahgoub et al , but their case had a different evolution , with decreasing levels of hCG. In order to reduce the blood<symptom> loss<symptom> , the anterior truncs of the hypogastric arteries were clipped. The side wall peritoneum was cut bilaterally and the ureters and the hypogastric arteries were dissected. Next , we performed the dissection of the vesico-uterine space. Due to the previous cesarean section the identification of the correct dissection plane was difficult. An uterine manipulator was used to facilitate the dissection. The exact location of the gestational sac was demonstrated using intraoperative transvaginal ultrasound. In order to reduce the bleeding , Glypressin was injected at the level of the uterine scar. The cesarean scar is cut using the monopolar knife. The gestation sac was reached easily and then extracted from the abdominal cavity with the use of an endobag. In order to obtain proper healing , the margins of the scar were resected using cold scissors. The hysterotomy was closed using a double-layered suture with 2.0 vicryl. We used methylene blue to verify the tightness of the suture. The final step was the removal of the clips. Operative time was 85 minutes with minimal blood<symptom> loss<symptom> of about 20 ml. Patients recovered well and was discharged 2 days after the procedure. A transvaginal ultrasound was performed one month after the surgery showing a good healing of the anterior uterine wall. Laparoscopic approach with excision and repair of the uterine wall represents a safe and efficient therapeutic option for the treatment of the cesarean scar ectopic pregnancy.