  Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D) and obesity already represent 2 of the most prominent risk factors for cardiovascular disease , and are destined to increase in importance given the global changes in lifestyle. Ten years have passed since the first round of genome-wide association studies for T2D and obesity. During this decade , we have witnessed remarkable developments in human genetics. We have graduated from the despair of candidate gene-based studies that generated few consistently replicated genotype-phenotype associations , to the excitement of an exponential harvest of loci robustly associated with medical outcomes through ever larger genome-wide association study meta-analyses. As well as discovering hundreds of loci , genome-wide association studies have provided transformative insights into the genetic architecture of T2D and other complex traits , highlighting the extent of polygenicity and the tiny effect sizes of many common risk alleles. Genome-wide association studies have also provided a critical starting point for discovering new biology relevant to these traits. Expectations are high that these discoveries will foster development of more effective strategies for intervention , through optimization of precision medicine approaches. In this article , we review current knowledge and provide suggestions for the next steps in genetic research for T2D and obesity. We focus on four areas relevant to precision medicine: genetic architecture , pharmacogenetics and other gene-environment interactions , mechanistic inference , and drug development. As we describe , the genetic architecture of complex traits has major implications for the prospects of precision medicine , rendering some anticipated approaches decidedly unrealistic. We highlight obstacles to the translation of human genetic findings into mechanism inference but are optimistic that , as these are overcome , there is untapped potential for novel drugs and more effective strategies for treating and preventing T2D and obesity.