  Heterotopic divergent ligand N-oxide-4,4 '- bipyridine ( bipyMO) has been herein exploited for the preparation of hetero-bimetallic coordination polymers where Ln ( hfac) 3 and M ( hfac) 2 nodes regularly alternate ( Hhfac = 1,1,1,5,5,5-hexafluoro-2,4-pentanedione) , bipyMO being able to selectively use its two potential coordination sites to discriminate the metal ions. The synthesis of three coordination polymers , ( Ln ( hfac) 3M ( hfac) 2 ( bipyMO) 2) n ( Ln = Eu , M = Zn , 1; Ln = Eu , M = Cu , 2 , Ln = Dy , M = Co , 3) , was carried out by reacting the appropriate ( M ( hfac) 2 ( bipyMO)) n and ( Ln ( hfac) 3) precursors in toluene in the presence of a given stoichiometric amount of bipyMO. The products were characterized by elemental analysis , X-ray powder diffraction , and FTIR spectroscopy. Single crystal X-ray diffraction studies carried out on 2 showed that it was formed by chains containing the hexa-coordinated 3d metal ( Cu ( hfac) 2 ( N) 2) and the octa-coordinated lanthanide ( Eu ( hfac) 3 ( O) 2) nodes , where ( N) and ( O) stand for the donor atom of the bridging divergent ligand. The X-ray powder diffraction patterns of the three compounds and the comparison of their cell constant values allowed establishing that the derivatives were isotypic. Photoluminescence ( PL) studies on microcrystalline sample powders evidenced a bright red emission for 1 with an absolute PL quantum yield of 0.24. The sensitized emission of Eu3 + can be excited in a wide wavelength range , from UV to visible , up to ≈ 450 nm. Conversely , europium emissions are not detectable in 2 due to the presence of Cu ( hfac) 2 ( bipyMO) moieties whose strong absorption overlaps Eu3 + transitions. Magnetic measurements conducted on 3 revealed the presence of a weak ferromagnetic interaction below 2.1 K. An ac susceptibility study highlighted a slow relaxation of the magnetization of 3 with an applied static magnetic field of 0.1 T , which could be equally fitted with a Orbach-direct or a Raman-direct mechanism. No relaxation dynamics was detected without the application of a static magnetic field.