  We present a novel additive manufacturing method for NiTi-Nb micro-trusses combining ( i) extrusion-based 3D-printing of liquid inks containing NiTi and Nb powders , solvents , and a polymer binder into micro-trusses with 0/90 ° ABAB layers of parallel , ∼ 600 µm struts spaced 1 mm apart and ( ii) subsequent heat-treatment to remove the binder and solvents , and then bond the NiTi powders using liquid phase sintering via the formation of a transient NiTi-Nb eutectic phase. We investigate the effects of Nb concentration ( 0 , 1.5 , 3.1 , 6.7 at. % Nb) on the porosity , microstructure , and phase transformations of the printed NiTi-Nb micro-trusses. Micro-trusses with the highest Nb content exhibit long channels ( from 3D-printing) and struts with smaller interconnected porosity ( from partial sintering) , resulting in overall porosities of ∼ 75 % and low compressive stiffnesses of 1-1.6 GPa , similar to those of trabecular bone and in agreement with analytical and finite element modeling predictions. Diffusion of Nb into the NiTi particles from the bond regions results in a Ni-rich composition as the Nb replaces Ti atoms , leading to decreased martensite/austenite transformation temperatures. Adult human mesenchymal stem cells seeded on these micro-trusses showed excellent viability , proliferation , and extracellular matrix deposition over 14 days in culture. Near-equiatomic NiTi micro-trusses are attractive for biomedical applications such as stents , actuators , and bone implants because of their combination of biocompatibility , low compressive stiffness , high surface area , and shape-memory or superelasticity. Extrusion-based 3D-printing of NiTi powder-based inks into micro-trusses is feasible , but the subsequent sintering of the powders into dense struts is unachievable due to low diffusivity , large particle size , and low packing density of the NiTi powders. We present a solution , whereby Nb powders are added to the NiTi inks , thus forming during sintering a eutectic NiTi-Nb liquid phase which bonds the solid NiTi powders and improves densification of the struts. This study investigates the microstructure , porosity , phase transformation behavior , compressive stiffness , and cytocompatibility of these printed NiTi-Nb micro-trusses.