  Uncertainty remains about the effect of vitamin D therapy on biomarkers of health status in obesity. The molecular basis underlying this controversy is largely unknown. To address the existing gap , our study sought to compare changes in metabolomic profiles of obesity phenotypes ( metabolically healthy obese ( MHO) and metabolically unhealthy obese ( MUHO)) patients with sub-optimal levels of vitamin D following vitamin D supplementation. We conducted two randomized double-blind clinical trials on participants with either of the two obesity phenotypes from Tehran province. These phenotypes were determined by the Adult<disease> Treatment Panel-III criteria. Patients in each of the MHO ( n = 110) and MUHO ( n = 105) groups were separately assigned to receive either vitamin D ( 4000 IU/d) or placebo for 4 months. Pre- and post-supplementation plasma metabolomic profiling were performed using Liquid chromatography coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometry. Multivariable linear regression was used to explore the association of change in each metabolite with the trial assignment ( vitamin D/placebo) across obesity phenotypes. Metabolites ( n = 104) were profiled in 82 MHO and 78 MUHO patients. After correction for multiple comparisons , acyl-lysophosphatidylcholines C16: 0 , C18: 0 , and C18: 1 , diacyl-phosphatidylcholines C32: 0 , C34: 1 , C38: 3 , and C38: 4 , and sphingomyelin C40: 4 changed significantly in response to vitamin D supplementation only in MUHO phenotype. The interaction analysis revealed that vitamin D therapy was different between the two obesity phenotypes based on acyl-lysophosphatidylcholines C16: 0 and C16: 1 and citrulline which were altered significantly after supplementation. Changes in metabolites were associated with changes in cardiometabolic biomarkers after the intervention. Vitamin D treatment influenced the obesity-related plasma metabolites only in adults with obesity and metabolically unhealthy phenotype. Therefore , not all patients with obesity may benefit from an identical strategy for vitamin D therapy. These findings provide mechanistic basis highlighting the potential of precision medicine to mitigate diseases in health-care settings.