  The aim of this study was to compare the bacterial leakage of conical internal connection implants with different taper angles ( 5.4 , 12 , 45 , and 60 degrees) and examine the efficiency of a disinfectant agent and a silicone sealant agent in the prevention of bacterial leakage under loaded conditions. Twenty-one implant-abutment connections were studied from each implant system ( Ankylos Implants , Dentsply; Bego Semados S Implants , Bego; Trias Implants , Servo-Dental; DTI Implants , DTI) , for a total of 84 implants. Each system 's implants were divided into three groups as follows: unsealed ( control) , 2 % chlorhexidine gel-sealed , or silicone-sealed ( n = 7 for each group). The insertion torque was applied to each abutment screw according to the manufacturers ' recommendation. The specimens were partially immersed in an 8-mm E faecalis<pathogen> suspension. A cyclic load of 50 N was applied for a total of 500,000 cycles at 1 Hz to the specimens. Following disconnection of dental implants and abutments , microbial samples were taken from the inner threaded surface of the implants , plated , and counted under appropriate conditions. There were no statistically significant differences in frequency of bacterial leakage and leaked bacterial counts among the four types of connections in all groups ( P > .05). The statistically significant differences were found between sealant agents and control groups in four different connection types in terms of the amount of leaked bacteria ( P < .05). There was no significant difference between the amount of leaked bacteria for four connection types when comparing the chlorhexidine and silicone sealant agents ( P > .05). Differences in taper angles in the internal conical connections had no significant effect on leaked bacterial counts or the frequency of bacterial contamination under dynamic loading. The application of 2 % chlorhexidine gel or a silicone sealant can reduce the leaked bacterial counts and reduce the frequency of bacterial leakage.