  Background and aims To date , no systematic approach to identifying the content and characteristics of psychological interventions used to reduce gambling or problem gambling has been developed. This study aimed to develop a reliable classification system capable of identifying intervention characteristics that could , potentially , account for greater or lesser effectiveness. Methods Intervention descriptions were content analyzed to identify common and differentiating characteristics. A coder manual was developed and applied by three independent coders to identify the presence or absence of defined characteristics in 46 psychological and self-help gambling interventions. Results The final classification taxonomy , entitled Gambling Intervention System of CharacTerization ( GIST) , included 35 categories of intervention characteristics. These were assigned to four groups: ( a) types<pathogen> of change techniques ( 18 categories; e.g. , cognitive restructuring and relapse prevention) , ( b) participant and study characteristics ( 6 categories; e.g. , recruitment strategy and remuneration policy) , and ( c) characteristics of the delivery and conduct of interventions ( 11 categories; e.g. , modality of delivery and therapist involvement) , and ( d) evaluation characteristics ( e.g. , type of control group). Interrater reliability of identification of defined characteristics was high ( κ = 0.80-1.00). Discussion This research provides a tool that allows systematic identification of intervention characteristics , thereby enabling consideration , not only of whether interventions are effective or not , but also of which domain-relevant characteristics account for greater or lesser effectiveness. The taxonomy also facilitates standardized description of intervention content in a field in which many diverse interventions have been evaluated. Conclusion Application of this coding tool has the potential to accelerate the development of more efficient and effective therapist-delivered and self-directed interventions to reduce gambling problems.