  The chemotherapeutic agent irinotecan is hydrolyzed to its active form SN-38 by human carboxyesterases , but SN-38 is converted into the inactive form SN-38G by hepatic UDP-glucuronosyltransferases ( UGTs). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the inhibitory effects of two b-glucuronidase-treated Japanese traditional herbal medicines ( kampo) , Hange-Shashin-To ( TJ-14) and Sairei-To ( TJ-114) on SN-38 glucuronidation , and the deglycosylation of baicalin ( BG) and glycyrrhizic acid ( GL) derived from TJ-14 and TJ-114 to form their respective aglycones , baicalein ( BA) and glycyrrhetinic acid ( GA). The inhibitory effects of b-glucuronidase-treated TJ-14 and TJ-114 on SN-38 glucuronidation by human liver microsomes were examined. BA and GA , which were enzymatically converted from BG and GL present in TJ-14 and TJ-114 , were examined in the same manner. Furthermore , the enzymatic activities were measured by using recombinant UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 isoforms instead of human liver microsomes. BA , GA , SN-38 , and their glycosides/glucuronides were analyzed with an LC-MS system. As regards the linear initial reaction rate , SN-38 glucuronidation by human liver microsomes was significantly inhibited by the addition of b-glucuronidase-untreated TJ-14 and TJ-114 , but was more strongly inhibited by the addition of b-glucuronidase-treated TJ-14 and TJ-114. The results of LC-MS analysis and pharmacokinetic studies suggested that BA is the main inhibitor of SN-38 glucuronidation. In the Dixon plot , BA showed competitive inhibition of SN-38 glucuronidation , and the inhibition constant was 8.70 ± 3.24 mM. Previous reports , studies of recombinant UGT isoforms indicated that SN-38 glucuronidation was mainly catalyzed by UGT1A1. These findings strongly suggested that SN-38 glucuronidation is inhibited by BA. BA could act as a pharmacokinetic regulating factor associated with SN-38 glucuronidation. This article is open to POST-PUBLICATION REVIEW. Registered readers ( see `` For Readers '') may comment by clicking on ABSTRACT on the issue 's contents page.