  Adding biochar to Zn-contaminated soil can immobilize excess Zn and promote plant biomass growth. This was seen previously over the course of a 180-day planted pot trial involving two types of biochar ( cattle manure , CM , and grain husk , GH) in a Zn-contaminated soil. Both biochars alleviated Zn-induced phytotoxicity to Ficus by immobilizing Zn and reducing its uptake by the plant , but to different extents. The aim of the current study was to delve into the in-soil mechanisms involved in biochar-mediated Zn immobilization. Biochar particles were excavated from the pot soils. Fresh and aged biochar particles were examined by high-resolution scanning electron microscope ( SEM) coupled with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy ( EDS) , field-emission electron probe micro-analyzer ( EPMA) , X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy ( XPS) , and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR). The physical and chemical properties of the biochars had changed over the 180 days. SEM-EDS and EPMA indicated that organo-mineral micro-agglomerates had formed on biochar surfaces and in pores. Some of the Zn immobilized by the biochars was bound in the organo-mineral complexes of these agglomerates. XPS and FTIR showed that the complexes had a high concentration of oxygenated functional groups which facilitated Zn binding and encapsulation. The micro-agglomerates were similar in structure and composition to those observed on biochars having resided for much longer times in soils , or having been subjected to accelerated aging. Overall , Zn immobilization by the CM biochar was greater than by the GH biochar , due to its higher alkalinity , higher concentration of available negatively charged groups , and greater accretion of organo-mineral layers. These findings are suggestive that biochar-assisted phytorestoration of heavy metal-contaminated soils can be optimized through selection of biochar having such traits. It is hypothesized that metals may be continually taken up in such micro-agglomerates , since they continue to form over the lifetime of the biochar in the soil.