  The prevalence of allergic rhinitis has risen sharply. Previous work has demonstrated the anti-inflammatory effect of catechin , including in models of allergic disease. However , the molecular mechanisms underlying this therapeutic effect remain unclear. Thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP) , as a molecule from epithelial cell , has been identified that plays a significant role in the development of allergic disease , and the production of TSLP is related to activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway. For that , we try to research the treatment of catechin for allergic rhinitis and found out possible mechanism under this effect , which was based on TSLP factor. Here , the anti-inflammatory effects of catechin were studied in an ovalbumin-induced allergic rhinitis murine model and a vitro experiments using poly ( I: C)- stimulated human nasal epithelial cells ( HNEpCs). The pharmacological effects of catechin in allergic rhinitis mice were assessed by observing the allergic symptoms , performing hematoxylin and eosin staining and Giemsa staining of the nasal tissues. Additionally , the TSLP expression in epithelial cells was tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays , immunohistochemistry , and western blots. The serum levels of interleukin-5 , interleukin-13 , and ovalbumin-specific immunoglobulin-E were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays , and the balance<symptom> between T helper type 1 and T helper type 2 cells was assessed by flow cytometry. The expression levels of phospho-NF-κBp65 , IκBα , and NF-κBp65 proteins were further investigated by western blots or immunofluorescence. Our results reveal that catechin , in doses of 75 , 150 , or 300 mg/kg , remitted the allergic symptoms in mice with allergic rhinitis , like sneezing and nasal rubbing. Catechin could reduce the levels of interleukin-5 , interleukin-13 , and ovalbumin-specific immunoglobulin-E in the serum and restored the T helper type 2/T helper type 1 cell balance<symptom> and also had anti-thymic stromal lymphopoietin effects. Moreover , as an upstream regulator of TSLP , the NF-κB signal pathway was also suppressed after catechin treatment , which was demonstrated by the observed decrease in phospho-NF-κBp65 and NF-κBp65 levels and the reduction of IκBα degradation and NF-κBp65 nuclear translocation. Catechin effectively reduced the inflammation<symptom> in allergic rhinitis. The underlying mechanism is that catechin inhibited the expression of TSLP in epithelial cells by influencing NF-κB/TSLP pathway.