  In this study , primary tumors ' fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose ( F-FDG) uptake in luminal A , luminal B , triple-negative , and human epidermal growth factor receptor type-2 subtypes of breast cancer was evaluated. In addition , the relationship between the primary tumor maximum standardized uptake value ( SUVmax) value and the presence of distant metastasis and axillary involvement was evaluated. Whole-body F-FDG PET/computed tomography ( CT) imaging of 493 patients ( mean age; 54.6 ± 13.2 years) diagnosed with primary breast cancer were analyzed retrospectively. PET/CT imaging was obtained 60 min after the intravenous administration of F-FDG. F-FDG uptake of the lesions<symptom> was assessed by calculating the SUVmax. Histopathological analyses were carried out on the basis of biopsy samples before PET/CT. For histopathological staging , the Scarff Bloom Richardson classification system was utilized , and patients were classified into luminal A , luminal B , triple-negative , and human epidermal growth factor receptor type-2 molecular subtypes. 82.9 % of the patients had invasive ductal carcinoma , 5.8 % had invasive lobular carcinoma , 4.2 % had apocrine carcinoma , 3.8 % had mucinous carcinoma , and 3.4 % has mixed carcinoma. Although the highest mean SUVmax was calculated in apocrine tumors ( 12.4 ± 7.2) , the lowest mean SUVmax was calculated in lobular carcinoma ( 6.8 ± 4.6) , and a statistically significant difference was found between the histological groups ( P < 0.001). F-FDG uptake was reported to be significantly higher in the triple-negative subtype than the luminal types , and in the luminal B subtype than the luminal A subtype. A statistically significant relation was found between primary tumor SUVmax and distant nodal , organ metastasis ( P = 0.003 and < 0.001 , respectively). Increased primary tumor F-FDG uptake was associated with aggressive molecular subtypes in this study. The relationship of distant nodal and organ metastasis with primary tumor SUVmax showed that increased F-FDG uptake is important in terms of management of therapy and prognosis.