  Study Design Controlled laboratory study with repeated measures. Background Delayed-onset muscle<symptom> soreness<symptom> ( DOMS) is one of the most common reasons for impaired muscle performance in sports. However , little consensus exists regarding which treatments may be most effective and the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Objectives To investigate the influence of compression garments on the development of DOMS , focusing on changes in muscle perfusion and muscle stiffness. Methods Muscle perfusion and stiffness , calf circumference , muscle<symptom> soreness<symptom> , passive ankle dorsiflexion , and creatine kinase levels were assessed on participants before ( baseline) a DOMS-inducing eccentric calf exercise intervention and 60 h later ( follow-up). After DOMS induction , a sports compression garment ( 18-21 mmHg) was worn on one randomized calf until follow-up. The contralateral calf served as an internal control. Muscle perfusion was assessed using contrast-enhanced ultrasound ( peak enhancement ( PE) and wash-in area under the curve ( WiAUC)) , while muscle stiffness was assessed using acoustic radiation force impulse ( shear wave velocities ( SWV)). An MRI scan of both lower legs was also performed during the follow-up testing session to characterize the extent of exercise-induced muscle damage. Comparisons were made between limbs and over time. Results SWV values of the medial gastrocnemius showed a significant interaction between time and limb ( p = 0.006) with the non-compressed muscle demonstrating lower muscle stiffness values at follow-up compared to baseline or the compressed muscle. No significant differences in soleus muscle stiffness were noted between limb or over time , as was the case for muscle perfusion metrics ( PE and WiAUC) for the medial gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. Further , compression had no significant effect on passive ankle dorsiflexion , muscle<symptom> soreness<symptom> , calf circumference , or injury severity per MRI. Conclusion Continuous wearing of compression garments during the inflammation<symptom> phase of DOMS may play an important role in regulating muscle stiffness; however , they have no significant effects on intramuscular perfusion or other common clinical assessments. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther , Epub 12 Jun 2018. doi: 10.2519/ jospt .2018.8038.