  Rational use of insecticides , as advocated by World Health Organisation , plays a crucial role for vector control in eliminating visceral leishmaniasis<disease> from endemic countries. Emergence and spread of resistance among vector sand flies is of increasing concern for achieving these goals. Information on insecticide susceptibility status of sand fly populations and potential association between the former and polymorphisms in the insecticide target genes is important for formulating proper vector control measures. The present study was designed to evaluate the susceptibility status of vector sand fly species ( Phlebotomus<disease> argentipes) against deltamethrin ( type II pyrethroid) , DDT ( organochlorine) and malathion ( organophosphate) and to detect polymorphisms in voltage gated sodium channel ( vgsc) gene and investigating their association with type II pyrethroid and DDT susceptibility in three Kala-azar endemic districts of West Bengal , India. Adult sand flies were collected from human dwelling and cattle sheds of the study areas and subjected to insecticide bioassay using insecticide impregnated papers as per WHO protocol. Polymorphisms in domain II segment 6 of vgsc gene of pyrethroid and DDT susceptible and tolerant P. argentipes were detected by DNA sequencing. P. argentipes population of the study area was found to be susceptible to deltamethrin and malathion with corrected mortality rate between 98.02 % to 98.80 % and 98.81 % to 100 % respectively , but resistant to DDT ( corrected mortality rate = 65.62 % -76.33 %). Two non-synonymous mutations L1014S and L1014F were detected of which L1014F was found to be associated with deltamethrin/DDT resistance. The replacement of DDT by synthetic pyrethroid is aptly done by national vector borne disease control programme ( NVBDCP). The prevalence of L1014F mutation in vgsc gene and its association with type II pyrethroid tolerability is an indication of emergence of resistance against it. Malathion may be used as an alternative in the study areas if needed in future. Similar studies at a regular interval are highly suggested for monitoring susceptibility of used insecticide and to detect early signs of emergence of resistance against them.