  The C-MAC laryngoscope ( C-MAC) is a videolaryngoscope that uses a modified Macintosh blade. Although several anecdotal reports exist , it remains unclear whether the C-MAC is superior to the Macintosh laryngoscope for tracheal intubation in the adult population. Systematic review , meta-analysis. Operating room , intensive care unit. For inclusion in our analysis , studies had to be prospective randomised trials which compared the C-MAC with the Macintosh laryngoscope for tracheal intubation in the adult population. Data on success rates , intubation time , glottic visualisation and incidence of external laryngeal manipulations ( ELM) during tracheal intubation were extracted from the identified studies. In subgroup analysis , we separated those parameters to assess the influence of the airway condition ( normal or difficult) and laryngoscopists ( novice or experienced). We conducted a trial sequential analysis ( TSA). Sixteen articles with 18 trials met the inclusion criteria. The C-MAC provided better glottic visualisation compared to the Macintosh ( RR , 1.08; 95 % CI , 1.03-1.14). TSA corrected the CI to 1.01-1.19; thus , total sample size reached the required information size ( RIS). Success rates and intubation time did not differ significantly between the laryngoscopes. TSA showed that total sample size reached the RIS for success rates. The TSA Z curve surpassed the futility boundary. The C-MAC required less ELM compared to the Macintosh ( RR , 0.83; 95 % CI , 0.72-0.96). TSA corrected the CI to 0.67-1.03; 52.3 % of the RIS was achieved. In difficult airways , the C-MAC showed superior success rates , glottic visualisation , and less ELM compared to the Macintosh. Among experienced laryngoscopists , the C-MAC offered better glottic visualisation with less ELM than the Macintosh. The C-MAC provided better glottic visualisation and less ELM ( GRADE: Very Low or Moderate) , with improved success rates , glottic visualisation , and less ELM in difficult airways.