  The development of portable , high resolution video displays such as video glasses allows clinicians the opportunity to offer patients an increased ability to visualize aspects of their physical examination in an ergonomic and cost-effective manner. The objective of this pilot study is to trial the use of video glasses for patients undergoing binocular microscopy as well as to better understand some of the potential benefits of the enhanced display option. This study was comprised of a single treatment group. Patients seen in the otolaryngology clinic who required binocular microscopy for diagnosis and treatment were recruited. All patients wore video glasses during their otoscopic examination. An additional cohort of patients who required binocular microscopy were also recruited , but did not use the video glasses during their examination. Patients subsequently completed a 10-point Likert scale survey that assessed their comfort , anxiety<symptom> , and satisfaction with the examination as well as their general understanding of their otologic condition. A total of 29 patients who used the video glasses were recruited , including those with normal examinations , cerumen impaction , or chronic ear disease. Based on the survey results , patients reported a high level of satisfaction and comfort during their exam with video glasses. Patients who used the video glasses did not exhibit any increased anxiety<symptom> with their examination. Patients reported that video glasses improved their understanding and they expressed a desire to wear the glasses again during repeat exams. This pilot study demonstrates that video glasses may represent a viable alternative display option in the otolaryngology clinic. The results show that the use of video glasses is associated with high patient comfort and satisfaction during binocular microscopy. Further investigation is warranted to determine the potential for this display option in other facets of patient care as well as in expanding patient understanding of disease and anatomy.