  The metamerically associated normal hindbrain and normal posterior fossa are programmed to grow together in such a way that the tonsils are located above the foramen magnum<pathogen> and surrounded by the cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF) of the cisterna magna<pathogen>. This allows the pulsating CSF to move freely up and down across the craniovertebral junction ( CVJ). A developmental mismatch between the rates of growth of the neural tissue and of the bony posterior fossa may result in the cerebellar tonsils being dislocated across the foramen magnum<pathogen>. The cause of this may be , rarely , an overgrowth of the cerebellum. More commonly , it is due to an insufficient development of the posterior fossa , possibly associated with a malformation of the craniocervical joint. When it is not due to a remediable cause , such a herniation is called a Chiari 1 deformity. This definition is anatomic ( descent of the tonsils below the plane of the foramen magnum<pathogen>) and not clinical: many patients with the deformity are and will remain asymptomatic. Most authors consider that a descent of 5 mm or more is clinically significant but other factors , such as the diameter of the foramen magnum<pathogen> and the degree of tapering of the upper cervical `` funnel , '' are likely to be as important. Morphologic markers of severity on magnetic resonance imaging are , beside the degree of descent , the peg-like deformity of the tonsils , the obstruction of the surrounding CSF spaces ( at the craniocervical junction and in the whole posterior fossa) , a compression of the cord , an abnormal signal of the cord , and a syringomyelia , typically cervicothoracic. The syringomyelia is assumed to be explained by the `` Venturi effect '' that is associated with the increased velocity of the CSF across the restricted CSF spaces. Radiologically , the etiopathogenic assessment should address the size and morphology of the posterior fossa , and the functional status of the craniocervical flexion joint. The posterior fossa is best evaluated on sagittal cuts by the posterior fossa pentagon proportionality associated with the line of Chamberlain , and on coronal cuts , by showing a possible shallowness of the posterior fossa. The functional status of the craniocervical joint is altered in case of a proatlantal hypoplasia , as this condition results in a cranial shift of the joint that brings the tip of the dens and of the flexion axis in front of the medulla , that is , in a situation of osteoneural conflict. Less commonly , similar conflicts may also occur when an abnormal craniocervical segmentation results in an instability of the joint.