  The generation of dendritic spikes and the consequent sharp tuning of neuronal responses are together attainable even when iso-feature synapses are randomly dispersed across the dendritic arbor. Disparate combinations of channel conductances with distinct configurations of randomly dispersed place field synapses concomitantly yield similar sharp tuning profiles and similar functional maps of several intrinsic properties. Targeted synaptic plasticity converts silent cells to place cells for specific place fields in models with disparate channel combinations that receive dispersed synaptic inputs from multiple place field locations. Dispersed localization of iso-feature synapses is a strong candidate for achieving sharp feature selectivity in neurons across sensory-perceptual systems , with several degrees of freedom in relation to synaptic locations. Quantitative evidence for the possibility that degeneracy ( i.e. the ability of disparate structural components to yield similar functional outcomes) could act as a broad framework that effectively accomplishes the twin goals of input-feature encoding and homeostasis of intrinsic properties without cross interferences. A prominent hypothesis spanning several sensory-perceptual systems implicates spatially clustered synapses in the generation of dendritic spikes that mediate sharply-tuned neuronal responses to input features. In this conductance-based morphologically-precise computational study , we tested this hypothesis by systematically analysing the impact of distinct synaptic and channel localization profiles on sharpness of spatial tuning in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. We found that the generation of dendritic spikes , the emergence of an excitatory ramp in somatic voltage responses , the expression of several intrinsic somatodendritic functional maps and sharp tuning of place-cell responses were all attainable even when iso-feature synapses are randomly dispersed across the dendritic arbor of models with disparate channel combinations. Strikingly , the generation and propagation of dendritic spikes , reliant on dendritic sodium channels and N-methyl-d-asparate receptors , mediated the sharpness of spatial tuning achieved with dispersed synaptic localization. To ensure that our results were not artefacts of narrow parametric choices , we confirmed these conclusions with independent multiparametric stochastic search algorithms spanning thousands of unique models for each synaptic localization scenario. Next , employing virtual knockout models , we demonstrated a vital role for dendritically expressed voltage-gated ion channels , especially the transient potassium channels , in maintaining sharpness of place-cell tuning. Importantly , we established that synaptic potentiation targeted to afferents from one specific place field was sufficient to impart place field selectivity even when intrinsically disparate neurons received randomly dispersed afferents from multiple place field locations. Our results provide quantitative evidence for disparate combinations of channel and synaptic localization profiles to concomitantly yield similar tuning and similar intrinsic properties.