  Cricothyrotomy may be necessary for airway management when a patient 's airway can not be maintained through standard techniques such as oral airway placement , blind insertion airway device , or endotracheal intubation. Wire-guided cricothyrotomy is one of many techniques used to perform a cricothyrotomy. Although there is some controversy over which cricothyrotomy technique is superior , there is no published data regarding long term retention rates. The purpose of this study is to determine whether ground based paramedics can be taught and are able to retain the skills necessary to successfully perform a wire-guided cricothyrotomy. This retrospective study was performed in a suburban county with a population of 160,000 with 23,000 EMS calls per year. Participants were ground-based paramedics who were taught wire-guided cricothyrotomy as part of a standardized paramedic educational update program. After viewing an instructional video , the paramedics were shown each the steps of the procedure on a simulation model , using a low fidelity task trainer previously developed to train emergency medicine residents. Using a 16 step procedural checklist , participants were allowed open-ended practice using the task trainer. Critical steps in the checklist were marked in bold lettering indicating automatic failure. Each paramedic was then individually supervised performing a minimum of 5 successful simulations. Retention was assessed using the same 16 step checklist 6 to 12 weeks following the initial training. A total of 55 paramedics completed both the initial training and reassessment during the time period studied. During the initial training phase 100 % ( 55 of 55) of the paramedics were successful in performing all 16 steps of the wire-guided cricothyrotomy. During the retention phase , 87.3 % ( 48 of 55) of paramedics retained the skills necessary to successfully perform the wire-guided cricothyrotomy. On the 16 step checklist , most steps were performed successfully by all the paramedics or missed by only 1 of the 55 paramedics. The step involving removal of the needle prior to advancing the airway device over the guide wire was missed by 34.5 % ( 19 of 55) of the participants. This was not an automatic failure since most participants immediately self-corrected and completed the procedure successfully. Paramedics can be taught and can retain the skills necessary to successfully perform a wire-guided cricothyrotomy on a simulator. Future research is necessary to determine if paramedics can successfully transfer these skills to real patients.