  Adverse events ( AEs) associated with blood transfusions , including component-specific red cell , platelet , and plasma products , have been extensively surveyed. In contrast , surveillance of AEs associated with hematopoietic stem cell ( HSC) products in HSC transplantation ( HSCT) has been less rigorous , even though HSC products include a diversity of immature and mature hematopoietic cells , substantial plasma , and dimethyl sulfoxide ( DMSO) in the case of cryopreserved HSC products. HSC infusion-related AEs have been attributed to DMSO toxicity , but AEs associated with the infusion of noncryopreserved HSC products are not uncommon. To quantify the frequencies , types , and risk factors of HSC infusion-related AEs , we implemented national surveillance for AEs observed within 24 hours after infusion. Herein we report on 1125 HSCTs , including 570 peripheral blood stem cell transplantations ( PBSCTs) ( 290 autologous ( auto-) and 280 allogeneic ( allo-)) , 332 allo-bone marrow transplantations ( allo-BMTs) and 223 allo-cord blood transplantations ( allo-CBTs). Unexpectedly , incidences of grade ≥ 2 AEs were most frequent in allo-BMTs ( 37.7 %) with no DMSO in any product compared with auto-/ allo-PBSCTs ( 20.9 % , P < .001) and allo-CBTs ( 19.3 % , P < .001) typically cryopreserved with DMSO. Hypertension was most often noted in BMTs , whereas nausea/vomiting , fever<disease> , and allergic reactions were most frequent in allo-PBSCTs. In a multivariate analysis , a history of transfusion reactions was a risk factor for overall AEs in all HSCTs ( odds ratio ( OR) = 1.459 , P = .045). For grade ≥ 2 AEs in allo-HSCTs , a history of transfusion reactions ( OR = 1.551 , P = .044) for overall AEs , and high infusion volume ( OR = 7.544 , P = .005) and allo-PBSCTs ( versus BMTs , OR = 9.948 , P = .002) for allergic reactions were identified as risk factors. These findings suggest that some factors unrelated to DMSO , such as allo-antigens , contribute to HSC infusion-related AEs. As severe AEs , a total of 117 grade ≥ 3 AEs were reported in 1125 HSCTs , including life-threatening complications in 3 ( 0.3 %) HSCTs: 1 allo-CBT ( anaphylaxis) and 2 allo-PBSCTs ( hypoxia , kidney injury) with cryopreserved product. Our data show that HSC infusion risks vary by product , can be severe , and should be monitored with the same rigor as modern transfusion hemovigilance programs.