  Organophosphates ( OPs) are found in hundreds of valuable agricultural , industrial , and commercial compounds; however , they have also been associated with a variety of harmful effects in humans. The acute toxicity of OPs is attributed to the inhibition of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase ( AChE); however , this mechanism may not account for all of the deleterious neurologic effects of OPs , especially at doses that produce no overt signs of acute toxicity. In this study , the effects of two weeks of daily subcutaneous exposure to the OP-nerve agent diisopropylfluorophosphate ( DFP) in doses ranging from 0.125-0.500 mg/kg on whole brain volume , white matter , and gray matter integrity were evaluated in post mortem tissues using histology and magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) methods. The effects of DFP on axonal transport in the brains of living rats were evaluated using a manganese-enhanced MRI ( MEMRI) method. DFP was associated with dose-dependent impairments in red blood cell and brain AChE ( down to 29 and 18 % of control , respectively at the highest dose) , 24 h after the last injection. However , there were no visible signs of cholinergic toxicity noted in any portion of the study. Moreover , histological and MRI analysis of post mortem brains did not reveal any pronounced alterations of whole brain , white matter , or gray matter volumes associated with DFP. Electron microscopy did reveal a DFP-related increase in structural disruptions of myelinated axons ( i.e. , decompactions) in the fimbria region on the corpus callosum. MEMRI indicated that DFP was also associated with dose-dependent decreases in axonal transport in the brains of living rats , an effect that was also present after a 30-day ( DFP-free) washout period , when AChE was not significantly inhibited. These results indicate that repeated exposures to the nerve agent , DFP at doses that are below the threshold for acute toxicity , can result in alterations in myelin structure and persistent decreases in axonal transport in the rodent brain. These observations could explain some of the long-term neurological deficits that have been observed in humans who have been repeatedly exposed to OPs.