  Motivated by the recent success of supervised and weakly supervised common object discovery , in this paper , we move forward one step further to tackle common object discovery in a fully unsupervised way. Generally , object co-localization aims at simultaneously localizing objects of the same class across a group of images. Traditional object localization/detection usually trains specific object detectors which require bounding box annotations of object instances , or at least image-level labels to indicate the presence/absence of objects in an image. Given a collection of images without any annotations , our proposed fully unsupervised method is to simultaneously discover images that contain common objects and also localize common objects in corresponding images. Without requiring to know the total number of common objects , we formulate this unsupervised object discovery as a sub-graph mining problem from a weighted graph of object proposals , where nodes correspond to object proposals , and edges represent the similarities between neighbouring proposals. The positive images and common objects are jointly discovered by finding sub-graphs of strongly connected nodes , with each sub-graph capturing one object pattern. The optimization problem can be efficiently solved by our proposed maximal-flow-based algorithm. Instead of assuming that each image contains only one common object , our proposed solution can better address wild images where each image may contain multiple common objects or even no common object. Moreover , our proposed method can be easily tailored to the task of image retrieval in which the nodes correspond to the similarity between query and reference images. Extensive experiments on PASCAL VOC 2007 and Object Discovery data sets demonstrate that even without any supervision , our approach can discover/localize common objects of various classes in the presence of scale , view point , appearance variation , and partial occlusions. We also conduct broad experiments on image retrieval benchmarks , Holidays and Oxford5k data sets , to show that our proposed method , which considers both the similarity between query and reference images and also similarities among reference images , can help to improve the retrieval results significantly.