  A total of 219 endophytic actinobacteria , isolated from roots , stems and leaves of chickpea , were characterized for antagonistic potential against Botrytis<pathogen> cinerea<pathogen> , causal organism of Botrytis<pathogen> grey mold ( BGM) disease , in chickpea. Among them , three most potential endophytes , AUR2 , AUR4 and ARR4 were further characterized for their plant growth-promoting ( PGP) and nodulating potentials and host-plant resistance against B. cinerea<pathogen> , in chickpea. The sequences of 16 S rDNA gene of the three endophytes were matched with Streptomyces<pathogen> but different species. In planta , the isolate AUR4 alone was able to significantly enhance PGP traits including seed numbers ( 11.8 vs. 9.8/ Plant) , seed weight ( 8 vs. 6.8 g/Plant) , pod numbers ( 13.6 vs. 11.5/ Plant) , pod weight ( 9.3 vs. 7.5 g/Plant) and biomass ( 10.9 vs. 8 g/Plant) over the un-inoculated control in chickpea genotype JG11. Interestingly , consortium of the selected endophytes , AUR2 , AUR4 and ARR4 were found less effective than single inoculation. Co-inoculation of the selected endophytes with Mesorhizobium<pathogen> ciceri significantly enhanced nodulation and nitrogenase activity in five chickpea genotypes including ICCV2 , ICCV10 , ICC4958 , Annigeri and JG11 over the un-inoculated control. The selected endophytes showed antagonistic potential in planta by significant reduction of disease incidence ( 28 ─ 52 %) in both single inoculation and consortium treatments over the un-inoculated control across the genotypes ICC4954 ( susceptible) , ICCV05530 ( moderately resistant) and JG11 ( unknown resistance). Further , antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase , catalase , ascorbate peroxidase , guaiacol peroxidase , glutathione reductase , phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and polyphenol oxidase and phenolics were found induced in the leaves of chickpea inoculated with selected endophytes over un-inoculated control. Principal component analysis revealed that , the antioxidant enzymes and phenolics were found in the magnitude of ICC4954 < JG11 < ICCV05530 which correlates with their resistance level. The selected endophytes enhanced the plant growth and also host plant resistance against BGM in chickpea.