  Post-treatment wastewater reuses are diverse. Recreational and environmental restoration uses of reclaimed water ( RW) can be potentially harmful to aquatic organisms. In this work the freshwater snail Physa acuta was exposed to RW ( 100 %) and its dilution ( RW 50 %). A simple laboratory mixture of three emerging pollutants was used to address the complex problem of mixture toxicity of RW. Hence fortified reclaimed water ( FRW) , obtained by adding fluoxetine ( 400 μg FLX/L) , perfluorooctane sulphonic acid ( 90 μg PFOS/L) and methylparaben ( 9 μg MP/L) , was tested at two dilution percentages: 100 % and 50 %. The effects of the laboratory mixture of FLX , PFOS and MP on the test medium were also studied. Long-lasting effects , together with early molecular responses , were assessed. Fecundity ( cumulative egg production) over 21 days and the hatching of produced eggs ( F1) after another 21-day embryonic exposure were monitored. The gene expression of three genes was analysed after 24 h of exposure: two endocrine-related nuclear receptors ( ERR and RXR) and one stress protein gene ( Hsp70). This reproduction test , with additional assessments of the F1 recovered eggs ' hatching success , showed that both RW and FRW significantly reduced fecundity. F1 hatching was affected only by FRW. The gene expression results showed that the RXR response was strikingly similar to the fecundity response , which suggests that this nuclear receptor is involved in the reproductive pathways of gastropods. ERR remained virtually unaltered. Hsp70 was overexpressed by the laboratory mixture in the test medium , but no effect was observed in the fortification of RW. This opposite effect and lack of response for F1 hatching produced by the laboratory mixture in the test medium highlighted the difficulty of predicting mixture effects. The experimental approach allowed us to test the effects caused by RW on P. acuta at different biological organisation levels. Thus , the combination of molecular biomarkers and ecological relevant endpoints is a good strategy to test complex mixtures like RW as it provides a framework to link mechanisms of action and whole organism effects when it is almost impossible to detect the pollutant ( s) that cause toxic effects.