  To investigate the effect of minimally invasive mini-incision and instrumented reduction combined with interlocking intramedullary nailing in the treatment of patients with multi-segment fracture of complex femoral shaft. From January 2013 to January 2016 , 32 patients with multiple fractures segments of femoral shaft were treated with instrumentation-assisted reduction combined with interlocking intramedullary nailing , including 22 males and 10 females with an average age of 45 years old ranging 17 to 68 years old. The time from injured to operation was 5 to 10 days with an average of 7 days. After admission , routine tibial tubercle or supracondylar bone traction was performed. The patient 's general condition was evaluated , the operation time and intraoperative blood<symptom> loss<symptom> were recorded. According to Thorsen femoral fracture morphology evaluation criteria and Hohl knee function evaluation of postoperative efficacy , postoperative fracture healing , complications and postoperative recovery of limb function were observed. All patients were followed up for 6 to 24 months with an average of 12 months. The operative time ranged from 48 to 76 minutes with an average of 67 min. The intraoperative blood<symptom> loss<symptom> was 150 to 400 ml with an average of 220 ml. The surgical incisions all achieved grade A healing. The fractures reached the clinical standard of healing. The fracture healing time ranged from 4.2 to 10.8 months with an average of 5.7 months. There were no nonunion , incision infection and internal fixation fracture , failure and other complications. According to Thorsen femoral fracture morphology evaluation criteria , the result was excellent in 28 cases , good in 3 cases , fair in 1 case. According to Hohl knee function evaluation criteria , the result was excellent in 30 cases , good in 2 cases. Instrument-assisted reduction combined with interlocking intramedullary nail fixation is a safe and effective method for the treatment of complex femoral shaft fractures. It has advantages of small trauma , fixed fixation , quick recovery , early postoperative functional exercise.