  The interaction of 3 water sanitizers ( sodium hypochlorite , iodine-polyvinylpyrrolidone , and citrate) utilized in poultry production on antibacterial activity and bioavailability of amoxicillin trihydrate ( AMX) were studied. Sanitizers were mixed with AMX in prepared water , the resulting substances were regarded as amoxicillin-sanitizer products ( ASP). First , the in vitro antibacterial activity of each ASP was compared to that of AMX. Then , pharmacokinetics ( PK) of ASP and AMX diluted in prepared water , were carried out in broiler-chickens. Amoxicillin or ASP ( 20 mg/kg) from different concentrations of sanitizers was directly placed into the chicken 's crop and blood samples were taken. Basic PK parameters were obtained. Serum activity/concentrations of AMX were assessed by agar diffusion and corroborated with high performance liquid chromatography. Results show that ASP of AMX/sodium hypochlorite decrease both , the antimicrobial activity of in vitro AMX and its relative bioavailability ( Fr) assessed with the maximum serum concentration ( Cmax) , the area under the concentration-time curve , and the mean residence time ( MRT) ( 3.80 μg/mL , 2.70 μg/mL · h , and 0.59 h , respectively) , compared to the AMX administered alone ( 12.54 μg/mL , 44.02 μg/mL · h , and MRT 2.78 h). ASP from amoxicillin/ionophore , reduced the Cmax ( 10.62 μg/mL) , Fr ( 94.67 %) , and MRT ( 2.07 h) , at the highest tested concentrations. In contrast , the 2 highest concentrations of the citrate sanitizer increased the Cmax ( 15.07 and 15.47 μg/mL) , Fr ( 119 and 132 %) , and MRT ( 3.32 and 4.06 h) and their in vitro antimicrobial activity. Interactions between the tested water sanitizers and AMX modify the Cmax , Fr , MRT of the latter , altering the PK/pharmacodymanic ratios for a time-dependent antibiotic. Results also reveal that the use of amoxicillin trihydrate administered through the drinking water does not meet the required PK/pharmacodymanic ratios. Thus , it is here postulated that this antibiotic should be administered at least twice a day and that its interaction with water sanitizers should be considered.