  What is the central question of this study? How does an acute session of exercise affect food intake of male Wistar rats? What is the main finding and its importance? Food intake in male Wistar rats is decreased in the first hour after physical exercise independent of the intensity. Moreover , high-intensity exercise potentiates the anorexic effect of peripheral glucose administration. This work raises new feeding-related targets that would explain how exercise drives body<symptom> weight<symptom> loss<symptom>. Obesity has emerged as a critical metabolic disorder in modern society. An adequate lifestyle with a well-oriented programme of diet and physical exercise ( PE) can prevent or potentially even cure obesity. Additionally , PE might lead to weight<symptom> loss<symptom> by increasing energy expenditure and decreasing hunger perception. In this article , we hypothesize that an acute exercise session would potentiate the glucose inhibitory effects on food intake in male Wistar rats. Our data show that moderate- or high-intensity PE significantly decreased food intake , although no changes in the expression of feeding-related neuropeptide in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus were found. Exercised animals demonstrated a reduced glucose tolerance and increased blood insulin concentration. Intraperitoneal administration of glucose decreased food intake in control animals. In the animals submitted to moderate-intensity PE , the decrease in food intake promoted by glucose was similar to controls; however , an interaction was observed when glucose was injected in the high-intensity PE group , in which food intake was significantly lower than the effect produced by glucose alone. A different pattern of expression was observed for the monocarboxylate transporter isoforms ( MCT1 , 2 and 4) and 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/ fructose-2,6-biphosphatase 3 ( PFKFBP3) in the hypothalamus , which was dependent on the exercise intensity. In conclusion , PE decreases food intake independently of the intensity. However , an interaction between PE and the anorexic effect of glucose is only observed when a high-intensity exercise is performed. These data show an essential role of exercise intensity in the modulation of the glucose inhibitory effect on food intake.