  The aim of the authors in this study was to adapt the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory developed abroad into Turkish for the evaluation of perceived stress during pregnancy. This study consisted of 350 primigravidas who attended the outpatient clinic of Nenehatun Women 's Birth Hospital in Erzurum city in eastern Turkey between 10 March 2015 and 4 January 2016. The Prenatal Distress Scale and Turkish version of the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory were used to collect data through face-to-face interviews. The data were analyzed using SPSS for Windows and LISREL software packages. Explanatory and confirmatory factor analyses , Cronbach 's alpha coefficients , split-half testing , parallel forms reliability , and test-retest methods were used to determine the validity and reliability of the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory. The average age of the participants was 23.51 ± 3.82. The total score average for perceived stress on Turkish version of the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory was 2.28 ± 0.90. The Cronbach 's alpha coefficient of the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory was 0.70 , the item-total point correlations were between 0.36 and 0.56 , and the correlation value of the test-retest was 0.98. In the parallel forms reliability conducted to determine the equivalence of the scales , there was a statistically significant correlation between Turkish version of the Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory and The Prenatal Distress Scale ( r = 0.689 , p < 0.001). The results of the explanatory factor analysis revealed that a three-factor structure , with factor loadings in the range of 0.36-0.79 explained 43.56 % of the total variance. The results of the confirmatory factor analysis confirmed the validity of the three-factor structure of the scale and that the data fit of the model was acceptable. It was established that the Turkish version of Antenatal Perceived Stress Inventory was a valid and reliable measurement instrument. This scale can be used for the evaluation of perceived stress in Turkish pregnant women.