  Pancreatic cancer , associated with poor prognosis and low survival rate , has been the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in the US. Although gemcitabine ( Gem) is the first-line chemotherapeutic drug in the management of pancreatic cancer , the median survival extension is only 1.5 months , indicating unsatisfactory clinical results. Therefore , exploring agents that can enhance the anti-cancer activity of Gem would be an attractive strategy. Our previous studies have demonstrated that eriocalyxin b ( EriB) , an ent‑kaurane diterpenoid isolated from Isodon eriocalyx ( Dunn.) Hara , possesses anti-pancreatic cancer effects , thus acting as a potential therapeutic agent. In this study , we further investigated whether EriB or the ethanol extract of I. eriocalyx ( Isodon) could potentiate the cytotoxic activity of Gem in human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. In addition , the mechanism associated with their effects was also studied. The anti-proliferation effect was assessed by MTT assay and Ki-67 immunostaining. The combination effect ( addition , synergism and antagonism) of various agents was calculated by the Calcusyn software ( Biosoft) , utilizing the T.C. Chou Method. Apoptosis was detected using Annexin V and PI double staining followed by quantitative flow cytometry. Protein expression regulated by various treatments was analyzed by western blotting. The combination index revealed that Gem and EriB ( or Isodon extract) had synergistic anti-proliferative effect. Both cellular apoptotic and anti-proliferative effects of Gem were significantly increased after combination with EriB ( or Isodon extract). The underlying mechanisms involved in the combination effects were elucidated , which include: ( 1) increased activation of the caspase cascade; ( 2) reduction of PDK1 and AKT phosphorylation; ( 3) induction of JNK phosphorylation by Isodon and Gem combination. Gem and EriB ( or Isodon extract) taken together in combination regulated PDK1/AKT1/caspase and JNK signaling and promoted apoptosis synergistically , which may contribute to the much increased anti-proliferative activity compared to either agent alone.