  In the Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Policlinico Umberto I in Rome , the Hospital Social Services ( HSS) is located within the Directorate of Health , reporting directly to the Chief Medical Officer , providing counselling and supporting clinical services. The HSS is part of a network with its own technical , professional and assessment independence. It often serves as liaison between the hospital and the territory , facilitating the development of services and contributing to public health recovery and maintenance , therefore improving the citizens ' standard of living thanks to aid projects and specific interventions. The present Report is based on two different studies carried out in 2008 and 2014 , both examining the work of the Hospital Social Service in the `` Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Policlinico Umberto I '' in Rome. The purpose is to compare these surveys and work out the results. The data collection is based on a number of social records from the HSS archives ( 814 records in 2008 and 790 in 2014). The research project followed subsequent stages: planning a draft of the research , where ethnomethodology was used as empirical evaluation technique; collecting data from the HSS 's paper and file archives ( biographical , clinical and social data); revising , analysing and elaborating the data which showed relevant changes leading to interesting conclusions. The comparative analysis of data showed a higher demand of HSS healthcare services , despite a smaller number of beds and hospitalisations available in standard regime. Also , it indicated an increase of patients below 18 years and a decrease of the over-65s age group. As for the geographical origin of patients reported to the HSS , there was a decrease in the percentage of Italian citizens , while the percentage of irregular non-EU and EU patients increased by over 5 %. Significant results were found comparing the days between the report to the HSS and patient discharge. Data concerning the ` more than 7 days ' group was steady over the years , being more consistent for both the variables considered and increasing in 2014. In the comparative analysis , the interventions with more significant differences were those aimed at promoting homecare and entering sheltered housing. In the former cases , a considerable decrease was observed , if compared to the activation of the integrated health and social homecare services , while there were more requests for homecare assistance; in the latter ones the analysis highlighted a sharp decrease in the percentage of the variable called `` assessment to enter Extended Care Units ''. The causes of these changes are remarkable and have to be found in the political , historical and cultural scenario:- a first factor is the increase in the more recent migratory flow from non-EU countries to Italy , which could explain the rising percentage of foreigners taken over by the HSS;- regional policies , economic cuts imposed on healthcare and higher income limits in order to calculate the patient 's economic participation in the costs of institutionalisation have affected the above-mentioned changes;- the innovations in the regulatory field of Latium Region have brought structural changes in long-term care facilities and in the level of care in Extended Care Units ( ECU).