  The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of stimulant and nonstimulant medications in children and adolescents using as an outcome measure the Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale-IV ( ADHD-RS-IV) , and to examine the effect of medications in different ADHD subtypes ( i.e. , inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity). MEDLINE , Scopus , EMBASE , EBSCO ( E-journal , CINAHL and SportDiscus) , PUBMED , and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases were searched. Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs) with parallel group or placebo-controlled studies comparing the effect of medications ( stimulants or nonstimulants) in children and adolescents with ADHD were included. The main outcomes were the ADHD-RS-IV total score and subtypes ( inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity). Treatment-emergent adverse events ( TEAEs) and secondary outcomes such as systolic and diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , and pulse rate were considered. The search strategy identified 15 RCTs , including a total of 4648 children and/or adolescents diagnosed with ADHD aged 6 to 17 years old. Overall , both stimulant and nonstimulant medications reduce the ADHD-RS-IV score with a standardized mean difference ( SMD) of -0.70 ( confidence interval ( 95 % CI) , -0.85 to -0.55); in subgroup analyses , the SMD was -0.83 ( 95 % CI , -1.11 to -0.54) for stimulant medications and -0.58 ( 95 % CI , -0.69 to -0.46) for nonstimulant medications. Similar results were observed in inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity subtypes. The placebo group also showed a medium effect SMD of -0.68 ( 95 % CI , -0.82 to -0.54). The most frequent TEAEs for stimulant and nonstimulant medications , respectively , were decreased appetite<symptom> ( 28.6 % and 14.2 %) and somnolence ( 4.4 % and 34.1 %). These results suggest that both stimulant and nonstimulant medications mitigate ADHD symptoms in children and adolescents , although subgroup analyses suggest a greater effectiveness of stimulant medications.