  Intermediate Care Services have been developed to provide high-quality and sustainable care to the elderly patients with chronic<disease> diseases<disease>. Italian Community Hospitals , inspired by the British model , are an example of Intermediate Care. The aim of this study was: ( 1) to describe the healthcare needs met by the Community Hospitals of Emilia-Romagna , Northern Italy , by depicting the characteristics of hospitalized patients , and ( 2) to evaluate process and outcome indicators by conducting a comparative assessment of the quality of care. Observational retrospective cohort study. The study population included patients living in Emilia-Romagna who were discharged during 2016 from the 14 Community Hospitals of the region. Data were retrieved from the Regional Informative System of Community Hospitals database; multi-morbidity profiles were identified through the Hospital Discharge Records Database and the Outpatient Pharmaceutical Database. In-hospital variation of the 5-level Modified Barthel Index and hospital readmissions within 3 months of discharge were retrieved for each patient. The presence of recurrent patterns of multi-morbidity , i.e. , clinical conditions that tend to co-occur , was investigated using unsupervised cluster analysis. The study population included 2,121 patients. Mean age was 79.5 years , mean Community Hospital stay was 22.4 days ( range 13.1- 31.5 days) and 62.5 % of the patients were females. The most common sources of admission were hospital ( 71.8 %) and home ( 27.0 %). Routine discharges were 60.0 % , planned home discharges were 13.6 % , and transfers to public or private hospitals were 10.8 %. We identified two multi-morbidity clusters unevenly distributed across Community Hospitals. Mean number of co-occurring chronic conditions per patient was different in the two clusters ( 3.0 vs. 4.7 , p < 0.004). Mean Modified Barthel Index at admission and discharge was 32.2 and 47.6 , respectively. Mean difference of 15.3 between values at admission and discharge was statistically significant ( p < 0.001). Three-month hospital readmissions occurred for 20.2 % of patients. The development of Intermediate Care Services , and in particular Community Hospitals , requires guidelines and protocols to define who among the patients can benefit more from this type of care. It is necessary to assess the quality of care provided by these facilities through appropriate and internationally comparable measures , including patient experience indicators.