  Pediatric use of second-generation antipsychotics , or neuroleptics , has increased over the past decade. Neuroleptic use can have significant and lasting adverse neurologic , metabolic , and cardiovascular effects. In the current literature , neuroleptic prescribing and monitoring is described in outpatient settings , with little description of inpatient pediatric practice. In this study , we are the first to explore prescribing and monitoring in inpatient pediatrics , highlighting similarities and differences in practice between pediatric medicine and psychiatry. This retrospective study included patients < 18 years of age who received a neuroleptic during inpatient hospitalization between September 2014 and March 2015 , within either the pediatric inpatient medical or psychiatric setting. Data collected included sex , age , race , height , weight , length of stay , service providing care , details involving the neuroleptic ( s) administered , comorbidities , lipid and glycemic monitoring , and results , monitoring for extrapyramidal symptoms , and mental health consultation. Factors associated with improved neuroleptic monitoring included longer length of stay and evidence of an adverse drug effect. Clearly specified indication for use was associated with improved neuroleptic monitoring. Although neuroleptic initiation during admission had improved indication documentation and monitoring practices compared with initiation before admission , a significant gap exists between inpatient psychiatry and medical settings in adverse drug effect monitoring , particularly extrapyramidal symptom monitoring and lipid collection. In our study , we describe current practice in the use and monitoring of neuroleptics in inpatient pediatric medical and psychiatric settings. In this study , we suggest that the use of neuroleptics in inpatient pediatrics , particularly inpatient medical settings , is conducted with suboptimal monitoring and , at times , without clear documented indication.