  The objective of this study is to evaluate whether the water siphon maneuver improves detection of gastroesophageal ( GE) reflux during barium esophagography compared with observation for spontaneous reflux only. Histopathologic analysis is the reference standard. This retrospective study assessed 87 outpatients who underwent both barium esophagography and upper endoscopy-guided biopsy within a 30-day interval. The water siphon maneuver was routinely performed when spontaneous GE reflux was not observed during the fluoroscopic study. Radiology reports were reviewed for mentions of the presence of reflux and the circumstances in which it was observed ( as a spontaneous occurrence or as a result of the water siphon maneuver). Pathology reports from subsequent endoscopic biopsies were reviewed to identify histologic changes of reflux disease. The sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of esophagography , observation for spontaneous reflux , and the water siphon maneuver were calculated and then compared using a McNemar test. Of the 87 patients , 57 ( 65.5 %) had GE reflux diagnosed on the basis of histologic changes noted on endoscopy , and 30 ( 34.5 %) did not. A total of 57 patients ( 65.5 %) showed reflux during esophagography , 41 ( 71.9 %) of whom had reflux diagnosed by the water siphon maneuver , and 16 ( 28.1 %) had reflux diagnosed on the basis of observation of spontaneous reflux. Forty-four patients had reflux diagnosed on the basis of both a barium study and histologic findings; 13 patients had reflux noted on esophagography but had negative histologic findings. The overall sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of esophagography for reflux were 77.2 % , 56.7 % , and 70.1 % , respectively. Spontaneous reflux alone had a sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of 21.1 % , 86.7 % , and 43.7 % , respectively. The water siphon maneuver showed a sensitivity of 71.1 % , a specificity of 65.4 % , and accuracy of 69.0 %. The differences in the sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy of the water siphon maneuver versus observation of spontaneous reflux were statistically significant ( p ≤ 0.004). A properly performed and interpreted water siphon maneuver significantly increases the sensitivity and accuracy for GE reflux during esophagography , compared with observation for spontaneous reflux alone. The water siphon maneuver is a simple addition to barium esophagography that improves sensitivity and accuracy for the diagnosis of GE reflux compared with observation alone.