  A considerable amount of research has focused on improving regenerative therapy strategies for repairing defects in load-bearing bones. The enhancement of tissue regeneration with microRNAs ( miRNAs) is being developed because miRNAs can simultaneously regulate multiple signaling pathways in an endogenous manner. In this study , we developed a miR-210-based bone repair strategy. We identified a miRNA ( miR-210-3p) that can simultaneously up-regulate the expression of multiple key osteogenic genes in vitro. This process resulted in enhanced bone formation in a subcutaneous mouse model with a miR-210-3p/ poly-L-lactic acid ( PLLA)/ bone marrow-derived stem cell ( BMSC) construct. Furthermore , we constructed a model of critical-sized load-bearing bone defects and implanted a miR-210-3p/ β-tricalcium phosphate ( β-TCP)/ bone mesenchymal stem cell ( BMSC) construct into the defect. We found that the load-bearing defect was almost fully repaired using the miR-210-3p construct. We also identified a new mechanism by which miR-210-3p regulates Sclerostin protein levels. This miRNA-based strategy may yield novel therapeutic methods for the treatment of regenerative defects in vital load-bearing bones by utilizing miRNA therapy for tissue engineering. The destroyed maxillofacial bone reconstruction is still a real challenge for maxillofacial surgeon , due to that functional bone reconstruction involved load-bearing. Base on the above problem , this paper developed a novel miR-210-3p/ β-tricalcium phosphate ( TCP)/ bone marrow-derived stem cell ( BMSC) construct ( miR-210-3p/ β-TCP/BMSCs) , which lead to functional reconstruction of critical-size mandible bone defect. We found that the load-bearing defect was almost fully repaired using the miR-210-3p construct. In addition , we also found the mechanism of how the delivered microRNA activated the signaling pathways of endogenous stem cells , leading to the defect regeneration. This miRNA-based strategy can be used to regenerate defects in vital load-bearing bones , thus addressing a critical challenge in regenerative medicine by utilizing miRNA therapy for tissue engineering.