  To implement Velocity-based image fusion and adaptive deformable registration to enable treatment planning for preclinical murine models of fractionated stereotactic radiosurgery ( fSRS) using the small animal radiation research platform ( SARRP). C57BL6 mice underwent 3 unique cone beam computed tomography ( CBCT) scans: 2 in the prone position and a third supine. A single T1-weighted post-contrast magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) series of a murine metastatic brain tumor model was selected for MRI-to-CBCT registration and gross tumor volume ( GTV) identification. Two arms were compared: Arm 1 , where we performed 3 individual MRI-to-CBCT fusions using rigid registration , contouring GTVs on each , and Arm 2 , where the authors performed MRI-to-CBCT fusion and contoured GTV on the first CBCT followed by Velocity-based adaptive registration. The first CBCT and associated GTV were exported from MuriPlan ( Xstrahl Life Sciences) into Velocity ( Varian Medical Systems , Inc , Palo Alto , CA). In Arm 1 , the second and third CBCTs were exported similarly along with associated GTVs ( Arm 1) , while in Arm 2 , the first ( prone) CBCT was fused separately to the second ( prone) and third ( supine) CBCTs , performing deformable registrations on initial CBCTs and applying resulting matrices to the contoured GTV. Resulting GTVs were compared between Arms 1 and 2. Comparing GTV overlays using repeated MRI fusion and GTV delineation ( Arm 1) versus those of Velocity-based CBCT and GTV adaptive fusion ( Arm 2) , mean deviations ± standard deviation in the axial , sagittal , and coronal planes were 0.46 ± 0.16 , 0.46 ± 0.22 , and 0.37 ± 0.22 mm for prone-to-prone and 0.52 ± 0.27 , 0.52 ± 0.36 , and 0.68 ± 0.31 mm for prone-to-supine adaptive fusions , respectively. Velocity-based adaptive fusion of CBCTs and contoured volumes allows for efficient fSRS planning using a single MRI-to-CBCT fusion. This technique is immediately implementable on current SARRP systems , facilitating advanced preclinical treatment paradigms using existing clinical treatment planning software.