  A new methodology has been developed for the assessment of the annual effective dose resulting from removable and fixed radiological surface contamination. It is entitled SUDOQU ( SUrface DOse QUantification) and it can for instance be used to derive criteria for surface contamination related to the import of non-food consumer goods , containers and conveyances , e.g. , limiting values and operational screening levels. SUDOQU imposes mass ( activity)- balance<symptom> equations based on radioactive decay , removal and deposition processes in indoor and outdoor environments. This leads to time-dependent contamination levels that may be of particular importance in exposure scenarios dealing with one or a few contaminated items only ( usually public exposure scenarios , therefore referred to as the ` consumer ' model). Exposure scenarios with a continuous flow of freshly contaminated goods also fall within the scope of the methodology ( typically occupational exposure scenarios , thus referred to as the ` worker model '). &#13; In this paper we describe SUDOQU , its applications , and its current limitations. First , we delineate the contamination issue , present the assumptions and explain the concepts. We describe the relevant removal , transfer , and deposition processes , and derive equations for the time evolution of the radiological surface- , air- and skin-contamination levels. These are then input for the subsequent evaluation of the annual effective dose with possible contributions from external gamma radiation , inhalation , secondary ingestion ( indirect , from hand to mouth<symptom>) , skin contamination , direct ingestion and skin-contact exposure. The limiting effective surface dose is introduced for issues involving the conservatism of dose calculations. &#13; SUDOQU can be used by radiation-protection scientists/experts and policy makers in the field of e.g. emergency preparedness , trade and transport , exemption and clearance , waste management , and nuclear facilities. Several practical examples are worked out demonstrating the potential applications of the methodology. & # 13.