  Despite their popularity , little research has been performed on lightly cooked and raw diet formats for pets. Therefore , the objective of this study was to determine the apparent total tract macronutrient digestibility ( ATTD); fecal characteristics , metabolites , and microbiota; serum chemistry metabolites; urinalysis; and voluntary physical activity levels of adult dogs fed commercial diets differing in processing type. The diets included: 1) Extruded Dry Kibble ( EXT) diet; 2) High-Moisture Roasted Refrigerated ( RR) diet; 3) High-Moisture Grain-Free Roasted Refrigerated ( GFRR) diet; and 4) Raw ( RAW) diet. Eight dogs ( mean age = 3.6; mean BW = 13.0 kg) were used in a replicated 4x4 Latin square design. Each period consisted of 28 d , with a 14-d adaptation phase followed by a 7-d phase for measuring voluntary physical activity , 1-d adaptation phase to metabolic cages , 5-d phase for fecal and urine collection , and 1 d for blood collection. Except for microbiota , all data were analyzed statistically by mixed models using SAS. Microbiota data were analyzed using Quantitative Insights Into Microbial Ecology ( QIIME) and Statistical Analyses of Metagenomic Profiles ( STAMP) software. Many differences in digestibility were observed , including greater ( P < 0.05) ATTD of crude protein and fat in dogs fed GFRR and RR than dogs fed EXT.. Dogs fed RAW had the lowest fecal pH and dry matter % , but fecal scores were not affected. Dogs fed RR had higher ( P < 0.05) fecal indole and total phenol and indole concentrations than dogs fed the other diets. Dogs fed RAW had a higher ( P < 0.05) fecal ammonia<pathogen> concentration than dogs fed the other diets. Fecal microbial diversity was altered by diet , with dogs fed GFRR and RAW having reduced species richness than dogs fed EXT.. Dogs fed RR , GFRR , or RAW had lower ( P < 0.05) Actinobacteria and higher ( P < 0.05) Fusobacteria than dogs fed EXT.. Dogs fed RAW or GFRR had higher ( P < 0.05) Proteobacteria than dogs fed EXT or RR. Dogs fed RAW had higher ( P < 0.05) Bacteroidetes and lower ( P < 0.05) Firmicutes than dogs fed EXT.. Serum triglycerides were within reference ranges , but greater ( P < 0.05) in dogs fed EXT than dogs fed GFRR and RAW. All diets were well tolerated and dogs remained healthy throughout the study. In conclusion , the lightly cooked and raw diets tested were highly palatable , highly digestible , reduced blood triglycerides , maintained fecal quality and serum chemistry , and modified the fecal microbial community of healthy adult dogs.