  The use of patient simulators in ophthalmic education appears limited. This study examines the effects of the addition of the ` Virtual Refractor ' patient simulator learning activity into a short unit preparing students to determine the power of the spectacle lenses required by patients in a clinic. Twenty-four year one optometry students were randomly assigned to either the simulator-intervention group ( n = 12) or the non-intervention group. All students attended tutorials on refraction and the use of a refractor-head. Simulator-intervention students additionally attended a tutorial on the Virtual Refractor. All answered a questionnaire concerning time spent studying , perceived knowledge and confidence. Twenty-four short-sighted patients were recruited. Two refractions per student were timed and the accuracy compared with that of an experienced optometrist. Ten students from each group completed the study. Students who used the simulator were significantly ( p < 0.05) more accurate at a clinical level ( within 0.22 ± 0.22 DS , 95 per cent CI 0.12-0.32) than those who did not ( within 0.60 ± 0.67 DS , 95 per cent CI 0.29-0.92) and 13 per cent quicker ( 4.7 minutes , p < 0.05). Students who used the simulator felt more knowledgeable ( p < 0.05) and confident ( p < 0.05) , but had spent more time reading about refraction and practised on the Virtual Refractor at home for 5.7 ± 1.3 hours. The Virtual Refractor has many features of high-fidelity medical simulation known to lead to effective learning and it also offers flexible independent learning without a concomitant increase in the student time-burden. The improved accuracy and speed on first patient encounters found in this study validates the use of this patient simulator as a useful bridge for students early in training to successfully transfer theoretical knowledge prior to entering the consulting room. The translational benefits resulting from compulsory learning activities on a patient simulator can lead to reduced demands on infrastructure and clinical supervision.