  Recent studies using geometric morphometrics have shown that estimations of demographic parameters can be made using skeletal elements previously not thought useful for such purposes. This study used geometric morphometrics to assess humeral morphological variation in an adult South African sample , and evaluated the accuracy of sex and ancestry estimations based on this variation. Humeri of 1046 adult South African individuals ( 464 females , 582 males) were digitized. Data sets were rotated and scaled to a common centroid using Generalized Procrustes Analysis. Mean centroid sizes between groups were compared using parametric tests , while morphological variation was evaluated using multivariate analyses. Discriminant Function Analysis coupled with leave-one-out cross-validation tests were used to assess the reliability of sex and ancestry classifications based on this variation. Male humeri were relatively larger and presented with morphological features indicative of larger muscle mass and smaller carrying angles than females. White individuals had relatively larger but morphologically less robust humeri than Black or Coloured individuals , likely a reflection of both genetic and socio-economic differences between the groups as enforced under Apartheid law. When sex and ancestry were assessed together , similar variations were detected than when either parameter was individually assessed. Classification accuracy was relatively low when sex was independently assessed ( 73.3 %) , but increased when considered in conjunction with ancestry , indicating greater variation between-groups ( ancestry) than within-groups. Ancestry estimation accuracies exceeded 80 % , even for the highly diverse Coloured group. Classification accuracies of sex-ancestry groups all exceeded 76 %. These results show that humerus morphological variation is present and may be used to estimate parameters , such as sex and ancestry , even in complex groups such as the Coloured sample of this study.