  Cultivation of oilseed rape requires application of specific fungicides. Besides their protective role , they can potentially influence the expression and activity of crucial enzymes in the plant. Among the large number of enzymes expressed in plants , aminopeptidases play a key role in all crucial physiological processes during the whole life cycle ( e.g. storage protein mobilization and thus supplying plant with needed amino acids , as well as plant aging , protection and defense responses). In the present paper , we evaluate for the first time , the influence of the treatment of winter oilseed rape with commercially available fungicides ( Pictor 400 SC , Propulse 250 SE and Symetra 325 SC) , on the activity of aminopeptidases expressed in each plant organ ( flowers , leaves , stems and pods separately). Fungicides were applied once , at one of the three stages of oilseed rape development ( BBCH 59-61 , BBCH 63-65 and BBCH 67-69). The aminopeptidase activity was determined using six different amino acid p-nitroanilides as substrates. The results have shown , that in control plants , at the beginning of intensive pods development and seeds production , hydrophobic amino acids with bulky side chains ( Phe , Leu) were preferentially hydrolysed. In control plants , the activity was ~ 3.5 times higher in stems and pods , compared to leaves. The treatment with all pesticides caused significant increase in aminopeptidases hydrolytic activity toward small amino acids Gly , Ala as well as proline , mostly in flowers and leaves. These amino acids are proven to be crucial in the mechanisms of delaying of plant aging , development of better resistance to stress and plant defense. It can be suggested , that studied fungicides enhance such mechanisms , by activating the expression of genes coding for aminopeptidases , which are active in hydrolysis of N-terminal amino acids such as Gly , Ala , Pro from storage peptides and proteins. Depending on fungicide , the major increase of aminopeptidase activity was observed after application at BBCH 67-69 ( Pictor 400 SC and Symetra 325 SC) and BBCH 63-65 ( Propulse 250 SE) stages of development. Our study revealed , that agrochemical treatment and time of application , influenced the expression and activity of aminopeptidases , even though they were not molecular targets of applied fungicides. Since aminopeptidases are widely distributed throughout all organisms and are crucial in many key physiological processes , it can be expected , that factors influencing their expression and activity in plants , can also influence these enzymes in other organisms , especially humans and other mammals.