  Mold fungi<pathogen> on malting barley grains cause major economic loss in malting and brewery facilities. Possible proxies for their detection are volatile and semivolatile metabolites. Among those substances , characteristic marker compounds have to be identified for a confident detection of mold fungi<pathogen> in varying surroundings. The analytical determination is usually carried out through passive sampling with SPME , gas chromatographic separation and detection by EI-MS , which often does not allow a confident determination due to the absence of molecular ions. An alternative is GC-APCI-MS , generally , allowing the determination of protonated molecular ions. Commercial APCI sources are based on corona discharges , which are often unspecific due to the occurrence of several side reactions and produce complex product ion spectra. To overcome this issue , an APCI source based on soft X-radiation is used here. This source facilitates a more specific ionization by proton transfer reactions only. In the first part , the APCI source is characterized with representative volatile fungus metabolites. Depending on the proton affinity of the metabolites , the limits of detection are up to two orders of magnitude below those of EI-MS. In the second part , the volatile metabolites of the mold fungus species Aspergillus<pathogen> , Alternaria , Fusarium<pathogen> and Penicillium are investigated. In total , 86 compounds were found with GC-EI/APCI-MS. The metabolites identified belong to the substance classes of alcohols , aldehydes , ketones , carboxylic acids , esters , substituted aromatic compounds , terpenes and sesquiterpenes. In addition to substances unspecific for the individual fungus species , characteristic patterns of metabolites , allowing their confident discrimination , were found for each of the four fungus species. 67 of the 86 metabolites are detected by X-ray based APCI-MS alone. The discrimination of the fungus species based on these metabolites alone was possible. Therefore , APCI-MS in combination with CID alone could be used as a supervision method for the detection of mold