  This study aims to carry out a quantitative analysis with high reproducibility using single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography ( SPECT/CT); we investigated the optimum parameters for the acquisition and the reconstruction. SPECT images were acquired with varying time per view using SPECT phantom ( JS-10) and the body phantom of National Electrical Manufacturers Association and International Electrotechnical Commission ( Body-phantom) , respectively. For the image reconstruction condition , we changed the product of subset and iteration ( SI product) and the Gaussian filter using a three-dimensional ordered subset expectation maximization. A combination of no scattering correction and no attenuation correction ( SC-/ AC-) and a combination of scattering correction and attenuation correction by CT images ( SC +/ AC +) were performed. The dose linearity , the recovery coefficient , the scatter ratio , and the coefficient of variation were evaluated using JS-10. Using Body-phantom , contrast-to-noise ratios of the hot spheres ( 13 , 17 mm) were calculated. Moreover , the change in the maximum standardized uptake value ( SUVmax) and the average SUV ( SUVmean) were evaluated for each sphere. From the evaluation results using the JS-10 , dose linearity , recovery coefficient , scatter ratio , and coefficient of variation were all good when time per view was 50-150 s , the Gaussian filter was 8-12 mm , and the SI product was 150. From the evaluation results using Body-phantom , comparing the Gaussian filter with 8 mm and 12 mm , the contrast-to-noise ratio was better for 12 mm and the error rate to the change of the scan-time was up to 3.7 %. However , SUVmax and SUVmean using 8 mm were closer to the design value of the phantom. It is necessary that Quantitative SPECT be acquired at 50 s or more per view per detection , reconstructed using a three-dimensional ordered subset expectation maximization with SC +/ AC + , the SI product is 150 times , and the Gaussian Filter is 8-12 mm. This suggested that the quantitative analysis would be carried out with good reproducibility.