  Fluorosis can induce oxidative stress through leading to reactive oxygen species ( ROS) generation. Selenium ( Se) can eliminate ROS by direct and indirect manners. In this study , therefore , we investigated the possible protective effects of sodium selenite ( SS) and selenomethionine ( Se-Met) on fluorine ( F)- induced oxidative stress in broilers. A total of 720 1-day-old Lingnan Yellow broilers were allotted to 4 groups ( 6 replicates of 30 birds each group) and fed with basal diet ( control group) , 800 mg/kg F ( high F group) , 800 mg/kg F +0.15 mg Se/kg as SS ( SS group) , or Se-Met ( Se-Met group) , respectively. The experiment lasted 50 d. High F group significantly decreased ( P < 0.05) the average daily gain ( ADG) and feed efficiency ( FE) in comparison with control group. The contents of ROS , malondialdehyde , 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine , protein carbonyl , and cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinases 3 in serum , liver , and kidney were higher ( P < 0.05) in high F group than those in control group. Compared with control group , the decreased ( P < 0.05) activities of glutathione peroxidase ( GSH-Px) and cytoplasmic thioredoxin reductase ( TrxR1) as well as contents of selenoprotein P ( SelP) , total protein ( TP) , and B-cell lymphoma-2 in serum and tissues were observed in high F group. Moreover , the pathological lesions<symptom> of liver and kidney in high F group were more than those in control group. However , supplementation with SS and Se-Met could improve ADG and FE , increase SelP and TP concentrations , elevate GSH-Px and TrxR1 activities , minimize the changes of oxidative stress and apoptosis parameters as well as ultrastructure of liver and kidney , whereas the effects of Se-Met were better than those of SS. The results indicated that excess F could result in growth inhibition of broilers through inducing oxidative stress and subsequently caused oxidative damage to biological macromolecules and soft tissues as well as apoptosis , whereas dietary SS and Se-Met supplementation could antagonize high F induced growth retardation by inhibiting oxidative stress and a mechanism of apoptosis regulation and the impact was more with Se-Met.