  Correlation-based sliding window analysis ( CSWA) is the most commonly used method to estimate time-resolved functional MRI ( fMRI) connectivity. However , instantaneous phase synchrony analysis ( IPSA) is gaining popularity mainly because it offers single time-point resolution of time-resolved fMRI connectivity. We aim to provide a systematic comparison between these two approaches , on temporal , topological and anatomical levels. For this purpose , we used resting-state fMRI data from two separate cohorts with different temporal resolutions ( 45 healthy subjects from Human Connectome Project fMRI data with repetition time of 0.72 s and 25 healthy subjects from a separate validation fMRI dataset with a repetition time of 3 s). For time-resolved functional connectivity analysis , we calculated tapered CSWA over a wide range of different window lengths that were compared to IPSA. We found a strong association in connectivity dynamics between IPSA and CSWA when considering the absolute values of CSWA. The association between CSWA and IPSA was stronger for a window length of ∼ 20 s ( shorter than filtered fMRI wavelength) than ∼ 100 s ( longer than filtered fMRI wavelength) , irrespective of the sampling rate of the underlying fMRI data. Narrow-band filtering of fMRI data ( 0.03-0.07 Hz) yielded a stronger relationship between IPSA and CSWA than wider-band ( 0.01-0.1 Hz). On a topological level , time-averaged IPSA and CSWA nodes were non-linearly correlated for both short ( ∼ 20 s) and long ( ∼ 100 s) windows , mainly because nodes with strong negative correlations ( CSWA) displayed high phase synchrony ( IPSA). IPSA and CSWA were anatomically similar in the default mode network , sensory cortex , insula and cerebellum. Our results suggest that IPSA and CSWA provide comparable characterizations of time-resolved fMRI connectivity for appropriately chosen window lengths. Although IPSA requires narrow-band fMRI filtering , it does not mandate a ( semi-) arbitrary choice of window length and window overlap. A code for calculating IPSA is provided.