  Background/aims During the 2014-2016 West<disease> African Ebola<disease> epidemic , clinical trials were fast-tracked in order to identify prophylactic vaccines and experimental treatments that might be useful in preventing or treating Ebola<disease>. These trials included the ongoing EBOVAC-Salone study , which was established and implemented in Sierra Leone to assess the safety and immunogenicity of the Ad26.ZEBOV/ MVA-BN-Filo prime-boost Ebola<disease> vaccine regimen. Methods This article describes the experiences of the EBOVAC-Salone research team in setting up and implementing the trial , and provides recommendations for research teams aiming to conduct clinical trials in future outbreak situations. Results Establishing a clinical trial during an outbreak brought some unique challenges , including those related to trial design and the regulatory environment , operational issues , and community engagement. The situation was further complicated by the weak infrastructure and limited experience of clinical trials in Sierra Leone. However , operating in an outbreak context also brought some benefits to the research team , including strong stakeholder support. The EBOVAC-Salone study recruited participants both during and after the outbreak , leading to additional challenges to trial implementation during the post-outbreak transition. Conclusion Many lessons have been learned about setting up and implementing a clinical trial during a devastating Ebola<disease> epidemic , and some of the experiences of the EBOVAC-Salone team were mirrored by those of other researchers operating in the region. Common to several of these research groups is a recommendation that research should be more closely incorporated into outbreak response planning , which could expedite the establishment of timely and appropriate research projects. We recommend that the lessons learned by researchers during the West<disease> African Ebola<disease> epidemic are built into programmes and strategies to improve the responses to future epidemics , wherever they occur.