  Estimation of a generating partition is critical for symbolization of measurements from discrete-time dynamical systems , where a sequence of symbols from a ( finite-cardinality) alphabet may uniquely specify the underlying time series. Such symbolization is useful for computing measures ( e.g. , Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy) to identify or characterize the ( possibly unknown) dynamical system. It is also useful for time series classification and anomaly detection. The seminal work of Hirata , Judd , and Kilminster ( 2004) derives a novel objective function , akin to a clustering objective , that measures the discrepancy between a set of reconstruction values and the points from the time series. They cast estimation of a generating partition via the minimization of their objective function. Unfortunately , their proposed algorithm is nonconvergent , with no guarantee of finding even locally optimal solutions with respect to their objective. The difficulty is a heuristic-nearest neighbor symbol assignment step. Alternatively , we develop a novel , locally optimal algorithm for their objective. We apply iterative nearest-neighbor symbol assignments with guaranteed discrepancy descent , by which joint , locally optimal symbolization of the entire time series is achieved. While most previous approaches frame generating partition estimation as a state-space partitioning problem , we recognize that minimizing the Hirata et al. ( 2004) objective function does not induce an explicit partitioning of the state space , but rather the space consisting of the entire time series ( effectively , clustering in a ( countably) infinite-dimensional space). Our approach also amounts to a novel type of sliding block lossy source coding. Improvement , with respect to several measures , is demonstrated over popular methods for symbolizing chaotic maps. We also apply our approach to time-series anomaly detection , considering both chaotic maps and failure application in a polycrystalline alloy material.