  In fire-prone ecosystems , changes in rainfall after fire could differentially affect seeders and resprouters , thus leading to long-lasting impacts on the vegetation. Climate change in the Mediterranean region is projected to reduce precipitation , expand the summer drought and increase fire danger. Understanding the sensitivity to changes in rainfall during the post-fire regeneration stage is critical to anticipate the impacts of climate change on Mediterranean-type areas of the world. Here , we investigated how species differing in post-fire regeneration strategy ( seeders vs resprouters) responded to rainfall changes in a Cistus-Erica shrubland of central Spain. Drought treatments were implemented using a system of automatic rainout shelters with an irrigation facility before ( one season) and after ( four years) burning a set of experimental plots. Treatments applied were: environmental control ( natural rainfall) , historical control ( mimicking the long-term rainfall) , moderate drought ( -25 % rainfall) , and severe drought ( -45 % rainfall). Plant demography and vigour ( main woody shrubs) , as well as abundance ( shrubs and herbs) were monitored during the first four years after fire. The first post-fire year was the key period for the recovery of seeders ( Cistus ladanifer and Rosmarinus officinalis) , and their recruitment , cover and size significantly decreased with drought. However , density four years after fire was larger than unburned and it was significantly correlated with emergence during the first year , indicating that population controls were more on emergence than on establishment. In contrast , resprouters ( Erica arborea , Erica scoparia and Phillyrea angustifolia) were hardly affected by drought. Plant community dynamics in the burned control plots progressively converged with the unburned ones , while that in the drought-treated plots lagged behind them , maintaining a higher cover , richness and diversity of herbs. This post-fire `` herbalization '' due to drought might facilitate an untimely fire , before seeders would reach sexual maturity , which could have major implications for the maintenance of the community.