  Wetlands self-organize through reciprocal controls between vegetation and hydrology , but external disturbance may disrupt these feedbacks with consequent changes to ecosystem state. Imminent and widespread emerald ash borer ( EAB) infestation throughout North American forested wetlands has raised concern over possible ecosystem state shifts ( i.e. , wetter , more herbaceous systems) and loss of forest<disease> function , calling for informed landscape-scale management strategies. In response , we employed a large-scale manipulative study to assess the ecohydrologic response of black ash wetlands to three alternative EAB management strategies: 1) a do-nothing approach ( i.e. , simulated EAB infestation via tree girdling) , 2) a preemptive , complete harvesting approach ( i.e. , clearcut) , and 3) an overstory replacement approach via group selection. We analyzed six years of daily water table and evapotranspiration ( ET) dynamics in six blocks comprising black ash wetlands ( controls) and management strategy treatments to quantify potential for hydrologic change and subsequent recovery. In both the do-nothing approach and complete harvesting approach , we found persistent changes in hydrologic regime defined by shallower water tables and lower ET rates coupled with increased herbaceous vegetation growth , indicating ecosystem state shifts driven by vegetation-water table interactions. The do-nothing approach showed the least hydrologic recovery after five years , which we attribute to reduction in overstory transpiration as well as greater shade ( via standing dead trees) that reduces open water evaporation and herbaceous layer transpiration compared to complete harvesting. We found no evidence of ecohydrologic disturbance in the overstory replacement approach , highlighting its potential as a management strategy to preserve forested wetland habitat if periodically executed over time before EAB infestation. Although the scale of potential disturbance is daunting , our findings provide a baseline assessment for forest<disease> managers to develop preemptive mitigation strategies to address the threat of EAB to ecological functions in black ash wetlands.