  There is significant variation in access to palliative care. We examined the pattern of outpatient palliative care referral among thoracic medical oncologists and identified oncologist characteristics associated with greater referral. We retrieved data on all patients who died of advanced thoracic malignancies at our institution between January 1 , 2007 , and December 31 , 2012. Using median as a cutoff , we defined two groups ( high-referring and low-referring oncologists) based on their frequency of referral. We examined various oncologist- and patient-related characteristics associated with outpatient referral. Of 1,642 decedents , 444 ( 27 %) had an outpatient palliative care referral. The median proportion of referral among 26 thoracic oncologists was 30 % ( range 9 % -45 %; median proportion of high-referring 37 % vs. low-referring 24 % when divided into two groups at median). High-referring oncologists were significantly younger ( age 45 vs. 56) than low-referring oncologists; they were also significantly more likely to refer patients earlier ( median interval between oncology consultation and palliative care consultation 90 days vs. 170 days) and to refer those without metastatic disease ( 7 % vs. 2 %). In multivariable mixed-effect logistic regression , younger oncologists ( odds ratio ( OR) = 0.97 per year increase , 95 % confidence interval ( CI) 0.95-0.995) , younger patients ( OR = 0.98 per year increase , 95 % CI 0.97-0.99) , and nonmetastatic disease status ( OR = 0.48 , 95 % CI 0.29-0.78) were significantly associated with outpatient palliative care referral. The pattern of referral to outpatient palliative care varied widely among thoracic oncologists. Younger oncologists were not only referring a higher proportion of patients , but also referring patients earlier in the disease trajectory. This retrospective cohort study found that younger thoracic medical oncologists were significantly more likely to refer patients to outpatient palliative care and to do so earlier in the disease trajectory compared with older oncologists , even after adjusting for other known predictors such as patient demographics. The findings highlight the role of education to standardize palliative care access and imply that outpatient palliative care referral is likely to continue to increase with a shifting oncology workforce.