  To investigate the influence of implant design on the change in the natural frequency of bone-implant system during osseointegration by means of a modal 3D finite element analysis. Six implants were considered. Solid models were obtained by means of reverse engineering techniques. The mandibular bone geometry was built-up from a CT scan dataset through image segmentation. Each implant was virtually implanted in the mandibular bone. Two different models have been considered , differing in the free length of the mandibular branch ( ` long branch ' and ` short branch ') in order to simulate the variability of boundary conditions when performing vibrometric analyses. Modal analyses were carried out for each model , and the first three resonance frequencies were assessed with the respective vibration modes. With reference to the ` long branch ' model , the first three modes of vibration are whole bone vibration with minimum displacement of the implant relative to bone , with the exception of the initial condition ( 1 % bone maturation) where the implant is not osseointegrated. By contrast , implant displacements become relevant in the ` short branch ' model , unless osseointegration level is beyond 20 %. The difference between resonance frequency at whole bone maturation and resonance frequency at 1 % bone maturation remained lower than 6.5 % for all modes , with the exception of the third mode of vibration in the 'D ' implant where this difference reached 9.7 %. With reference to the ` short branch ' , considering the first mode of vibration , 61-68 % of the frequency increase was achieved at 10 % osseointegration; 72-79 % was achieved at 20 %; 89-93 % was achieved at 50 % osseointegration. The pattern of the natural frequency versus the osseointegration level is similar among different modes of vibration. Resonance frequencies and their trends towards osseointegration level may differ between implant designs , and in different boundary conditions that are related to implant position inside the mandible; tapered implants are the most sensitive to bone maturation levels , small implants have very little sensitivity. Resonance frequencies are less sensitive to bone maturation level beyond 50 %.