  The demand for real-time monitoring of cell functions and cell conditions has dramatically increased with the emergence of organ-on-a-chip ( OOC) systems. However , the incorporation of co-cultures and microfluidic channels in OOC systems increases their biological complexity and therefore makes the analysis and monitoring of analytical parameters inside the device more difficult. In this work , we present an approach to integrate multiple sensors in an extremely thin , porous and delicate membrane inside a liver-on-a-chip device. Specifically , three electrochemical dissolved oxygen ( DO) sensors were inkjet-printed along the microfluidic channel allowing local online monitoring of oxygen concentrations. This approach demonstrates the existence of an oxygen gradient up to 17.5 % for rat hepatocytes and 32.5 % for human hepatocytes along the bottom channel. Such gradients are considered crucial for the appearance of zonation of the liver. Inkjet printing ( IJP) was the selected technology as it allows drop on demand material deposition compatible with delicate substrates , as used in this study , which can not withstand temperatures higher than 130 °C. For the deposition of uniform gold and silver conductive inks on the porous membrane , a primer layer using SU-8 dielectric material was used to seal the porosity of the membrane at defined areas , with the aim of building a uniform sensor device. As a proof-of-concept , experiments with cell cultures of primary human and rat hepatocytes were performed , and oxygen consumption rate was stimulated with carbonyl-cyanide-4- ( trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone ( FCCP) , accelerating the basal respiration<symptom> of 0.23 ± 0.07 nmol s-1/ 106 cells up to 5.95 ± 0.67 nmol s-1/ 106 cells s for rat cells and the basal respiration<symptom> of 0.17 ± 0.10 nmol s-1/ 106 cells by up to 10.62 ± 1.15 nmol s-1/ 106 cells for human cells , with higher oxygen consumption of the cells seeded at the outflow zone. These results demonstrate that the approach of printing sensors inside an OOC has tremendous potential because IJP is a feasible technique for the integration of different sensors for evaluating metabolic activity of cells , and overcomes one of the major challenges still remaining on how to tap the full potential of OOC systems.