  Young people who begin to smoke at an early age are at a higher risk of becoming occasional or regular smokers and establishing a premature dependence. It is fundamental to act as soon as possible , from very early childhood , to prevent harmful behaviors for health such as smoking and drinking alcohol. Young people must be encouraged to adopt healthy lifestyles. The aim of the study is two-fold. First , increasing the knowledge about the negative health effects of cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption among children aged 9-10 years; and second , to introduce and reinforce life skills in order to learn how to tackle social influences that encourage children to smoke and to drink alcohol. A pilot randomized field trial was conducted in May-June 2017. Four primary school classes in Rome were randomized to either the intervention or the control group. Both groups participated in an oral presentation about the risks and consequences of smoking and alcohol consumption , and the concept of life skills. The intervention group participated in two gaming sessions , each lasting 1.5 hours. Children were involved in six games aiming to deliver and reinforce knowledge about the target themes of the study. A 21 multi-response questions questionnaire was handed out to both groups at the beginning and at the end of the study. Eleven questions were about smoking; five questions about alcohol; five questions about life skills. Each question item included one correct answer. For each domain , a score was computed ( total; smoking; alcohol; life skills). 67 children participated in the study ( 34 in the intervention and 33 in the control group). Univariate analyses showed significant differences among the intervention group before and after the intervention for total score ( p < 0.001) , smoke score ( p < 0.001) , and life skills score ( p = 0.003). No significant differences among the intervention group before and after the intervention were reported for alcohol score ( p = 0.076). Regarding the control group univariate analysis showed significant differences in total score ( p = 0,001) and life skills score ( p = 0.005). Multivariate analysis revealed that enrollment in the intervention was the only variable that had a significant positive influence on smoking knowledge score ( beta = 1.070 , p = 0.05). This pilot study shows that the intervention was effective among the intervention group for all the scores: total score , smoke score and life skills score , but ineffective for alcohol. Overall , the combination of a presentation and games was effective in increasing life skills knowledge.