  Widespread use of pancreatic islet transplantation for treatment of type 1 diabetes ( T1D) is currently limited by requirements for long-term immunosuppression , limited donor supply , and poor long-term engraftment and function. Upon isolation from their native microenvironment , islets undergo rapid apoptosis , which is further exacerbated by poor oxygen and nutrient supply following infusion into the portal vein. Identifying alternative strategies to restore critical microenvironmental cues , while maximizing islet health and function , are needed to advance this cellular therapy. We hypothesized that biophysical properties provided through type I oligomeric collagen macroencapsulation are important considerations when designing strategies to improve islet survival , phenotype , and function. Mouse islets were encapsulated at various Oligomer concentrations ( 0.5 to 3.0 mg/mL) or suspended in media and cultured for 14 days , after which viability , protein expression , and function were assessed. Oligomer-encapsulated islets showed a density-dependent improvement in in-vitro viability , cytoarchitecture , and insulin secretion , with 3 mg/mL yielding values comparable to freshly isolated islets. For transplantation into streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice , 500 islets were mixed in Oligomer and injected subcutaneously , where rapid in-situ macroencapsulation occurred , or injected into saline. Mice treated with Oligomer-encapsulated islets exhibited rapid ( within 24 hours) diabetes reversal and maintenance of normoglycemia for 14 ( immunocompromised) , 90 ( syngeneic) , and 40 days ( allogeneic). Histological analysis showed Oligomer-islet engraftment with maintenance of islet cytoarchitecture , revascularization , and no foreign body response. Oligomer-islet macroencapsulation may provide a useful strategy for prolonging the health and function of cultured islets and has potential as a subcutaneous injectable islet transplantation strategy for treatment of T1D.