  Accumulating evidence suggests that stressful life events are associated with increased risk for aggressive<symptom> behavior<symptom> in adolescents; however , aggressive reactions to life stressors exhibit large individual differences. The present study sought to examine whether the interaction between a single nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ( rs53576)) within the oxytocin receptor gene ( OXTR) and stressful life events is related to aggression in Chinese Han adolescents. A total of 197 Chinese Han adolescents ( 14-17 years of age) were included in this study. Aggression was assessed using the 12-item short version of Buss and Perry Aggression Questionnaire. Stressful life events during the past 12 months were assessed using the Adolescent Self-Rating Life Events Checklist. Genomic DNA was extracted from saliva and buccal cells from each individual. Multivariate analysis of variance yielded a significant interaction between OXTR rs53576 SNP and life stress ( F = 2.449 , p = 0.043 , partial η2 = 0.051) and of sex × SNP × life stress ( F = 3.144 , p = 0.016 , partial η2 = 0.064). High life stress during the past 12 months was associated with high levels of physical aggression and hostility in OXTR rs53576 homozygous AA adolescents but not in G-carrier adolescents. In boys , homozygous AA individuals in the high life stress group reported significantly higher levels of physical aggression than participants in the other three groups; the interaction , however , was not significant in girls. This study , which analyzed a specific gene-environment interaction , demonstrated that AA OXTR rs53576 homozygosity may correlate with higher levels of aggression under high life stress conditions with a sample of healthy Chinese Han adolescents. These findings promote the etiological understanding of adolescent aggression , highlighting the complex effect of stressful life events on aggression , and adding evidence supporting the relationship between the oxytocin system and aggressive<symptom> behavior<symptom> in adolescents.