  Open reduction and internal fixation using plates is the gold standard for the treatment of displaced forearm bone fractures in adults. The ulna being subcutaneous throughout has a constant approach. However , the radius is approached from either the dorsal or the volar side. Both the dorsal and the volar approaches to the radial shaft involve meticulous dissection and preservation of important neurovascular structures. The posterior interosseus nerve is at risk in the dorsal approach and the radial artery and its branches in the volar approach. Dissection of these structures also adds to the operative time. The possibility of a third alternate approach was perceived , which could decrease the potential risks of the conventional approaches. Sixteen patients with radial shaft fractures in the middle third were operated on using the lateral approach: 6 of them had isolated radius fracture and 10 had both-bone fractures. There were 13 males and three females with a mean age of 37.9 years. Limited contact dynamic compression plate or locking compression plate of 3.5 mm was used to fix all fractures. All patients were operated on within 36 h of injury and then followed up till union. Union was assessed using serial radiographs and functional outcome using Anderson et al. 's criteria. The final functional outcome was assessed at an average 6 months after surgery and the results compiled. The mean operative time in isolated radius fractures was 37.5 min and that for plating of both bones was 80.7 min. Primary bone grafting of the radius was done in one case and secondary bone grafting in another patient with delayed union of the radius. Union was achieved in all cases at a mean time of 17.25 weeks. The functional outcome was excellent in 10 patients , satisfactory in 5 patients , and unsatisfactory in 1 patient. The lateral approach is a simple approach with low operative complexity and complications. We found this approach to provide a reliably good exposure of the middle third of the radius , enabling lateral plating without complications.