  Minimal extracorporeal circulation techniques and systems ( MiECC) may reduce the negative side effects of conventional extracorporeal circulation ( ECC). However , it is still unclear as to what this is caused by , the reduced priming volume and hemodilution , or the avoidance of blood-air contact and dispersion of mediastinal debris into the systemic circulation. The aim of the trial was the comparison of MiECC to an open ECC setup ( openECC) or a system with reduced blood air and debris interaction ( closeECC). Methods: In a prospective randomized trial , 72 patients ( 73 ± 5.3 years; 83 % male) referred for coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG) were randomly assigned either to MiECC ( priming volume 550mL) , closeECC , or openECC ( priming volume 1250mL). The laboratory surrogate endpoints ( renal function , inflammatory response , ischemia , coagulation , and hemolysis<symptom>) and clinical data were measured at six different time points ( T1-6). Results: Patients were comparable for all preoperative variables. The operation times ( MiECC 261 ± 79 min; openECC 264 ± 75 min; closeECC 231 ± 68 min) and perfusion times ( MiECC 115 ± 49 min; openECC353 107 ± 37 min; closeECC 99 ± 22 min) revealed a trend of faster performance in the closeECC group ( P < .05). Pro-inflammatory cytokines , ischemia , and coagulation markers were significantly elevated postoperatively in all cardiopulmonary bypass types , and decreased to pre-baseline levels at discharge ( T5) without identifiable statistical differences between the three study groups. Free-hemoglobin was not significantly increased by centrifugal pump or cell saver procedures. Significant intraoperative hemodilution effects due to the different priming volumes were demonstrated only at the end of operation ( T2) ( MiECC Hb 9.6 ± 1.1 g/dL; openECC Hb 9.0 ± 0.8 g/dL; closeECC Hb 8.7 ± 1g/dL; P =. 01). Neither the hemodilution , suction technique ( MiECC) , nor blood-air interface ( closeECC) could show sustainable benefits in this underpowered study , compared to conventional ECC systems ( openECC) in a high volume series of surrogate parameters.