  Treatment endpoints in eosinophilic esophagitis ( EoE) are response of eosinophilic inflammation<symptom> and of symptoms. Steroids and diet therapy are effective in inducing histologic response in EoE , but there may be poor correlation between histologic and symptomatic response. Despite this , we find that in clinical practice symptoms are commonly used to guide management without assessing histologic response. We hypothesized that symptom response<symptom> alone is not reliable in assessing response to therapy and is confounded by endoscopic dilation. We conducted a systematic review and meta-regressions to estimate the association of histologic and symptomatic response , stratified by whether concurrent dilation was permitted. We performed a systematic search of PubMed , EMBASE , and Web of Science for studies describing both histologic and symptomatic responses to dilation , steroid , and diet therapies. We abstracted the proportion of histologic response and symptom response<symptom>. Studies were stratified by whether dilation was permitted. We performed meta-regressions of the association between the proportions with histologic and symptomatic response , stratified by whether dilation was permitted. We identified 1359 articles , of which 62 articles were assessed for eligibility , and 23 were included providing data on 1202 patients with EoE. Unstratified meta-regression of histologic versus symptomatic response showed moderate association and large heterogeneity ( inconsistency index ( I2) = 89 %). In adult studies in which dilation was allowed , there was weak association between symptomatic and histologic response ( β1 = 0.21) , minimal symptomatic response of 67 % and the heterogeneity persisted , I2 = 77 %. In studies that prohibited dilation , maximal symptomatic response was 72 % and was moderately associated with histologic response ( β1 = 0.39) with less heterogeneity , I2 = 59 %. Studies of EoE that permit dilation obscure the relation between histologic and symptomatic response and have a high floor effect for symptomatic response. Studies that prohibit dilation demonstrate moderate association between histologic and symptomatic response , but have a ceiling effect for symptomatic response. Our results demonstrate that success of dietary or medical management for EoE can not be judged by symptoms alone , and require histologic assessment , particularly if dilation has been performed.