  Personalized Medicine ( PM) seeks to assist the patients according to their specific treatment needs and potential intervention responses. However , in the neurological context , this approach is limited by crucial methodological challenges , such as the requirement for an understanding of the causal disease mechanisms and the inability to predict the brain 's response to therapeutic interventions. Here , we introduce and validate the concept of the personalized Therapeutic Intervention Fingerprint ( pTIF) , which predicts the effectiveness of potential interventions for controlling a patient 's disease evolution. Each subject 's pTIF can be inferred from multimodal longitudinal imaging ( e.g. amyloid-β , metabolic and tau PET; vascular , functional and structural MRI). We studied an aging population ( N = 331) comprising cognitively normal and neurodegenerative patients , longitudinally scanned using six different neuroimaging modalities. We found that the resulting pTIF vastly outperforms cognitive and clinical evaluations on predicting individual variability in gene expression ( GE) profiles. Furthermore , after regrouping the patients according to their predicted primary single-target interventions , we observed that these pTIF-based subgroups present distinctively altered molecular pathway signatures , supporting the across-population identification of dissimilar pathological stages , in active correspondence with different therapeutic needs. The results further evidence the imprecision of using broad clinical categories for understanding individual molecular alterations and selecting appropriate therapeutic needs. To our knowledge , this is the first study highlighting the direct link between multifactorial brain dynamics , predicted treatment responses , and molecular alterations at the patient level. Inspired by the principles of PM , the proposed pTIF framework is a promising step towards biomarker-driven assisted therapeutic interventions , with additional important implications for selective enrollment of patients in clinical trials.