  Ecological niche partitioning of Anolis lizards of the Greater Antillean islands has been the focus of many comparative studies , and much is known about external morphological convergence that characterizes anole ecomorphs. Their internal anatomy , however , has rarely been explored in an ecomorphological context , and it remains unknown to what degree skeletal morphology tracks the diversity and ecological adaptation of these lizards. Herein , we employ CT scanning techniques to visualise the skeleton of the pelvic girdle in situ , and 3D geometric morphometrics to compare the form of the ilium , ischium , and pubis within and between ecomorphs. We examine 26 species of anoles representing four ecomorphs ( trunk-ground , trunk-crown , crown-giant , twig) from three islands ( Jamaica , Hispaniola , and Puerto Rico). The subtle variations in pelvic girdle morphology discovered are directly associable with all three parameters that we set out to focus on: phylogenetic relationship , specimen size , and assigned ecomorph category. Morphometric variation that correlates with size and/or phylogenetic signal varies between species and can not be eliminated from the data set without markedly reducing its overall variability. The discovered patterns of skeletal variation are consistent with the demands of locomotor mechanics pertinent to the structural configuration of the microhabitat of three of the four ecomorphs , with the fourth having no discernible distinctive features. This manifests itself chiefly in the relative anteroposterior extent and anteroventral inclination of the ilium and pubis , which differ between ecomorphs and are postulated to reflect optimization of the direction of muscle vectors of the femoral protractors and retractors. Our investigation of the form of the pelvic girdle of anoles allows us to generalize our findings to entire ecomorph categories within a broad phylogenetic and biogeographic context. Differences in the form and configuration of the postcranial skeleton are directly related to ecological patterns.