  Revascularization strategies for complex cerebral aneurysms<disease> are largely based on subjective interpretation of flow demands , or indirect measures of perfusion in at-risk territories. Indocyanine Green- based flow analyses ( ( ICG-BFA); Flow 800 , Carl Zeiss , Oberkochen , Germany) provide a real-time , semiquantitative measure of intraoperative cortical perfusion during cerebral bypass surgery for complex aneurysms<disease>. To determine the utility of intraoperative ICG-BFA for assessing cortical perfusion in at-risk territories during cerebral bypass for complex aneurysms<disease> requiring vessel sacrifice. Retrospective analysis of consecutive patients from a prospective , single-institution open cerebrovascular database. Intraoperative ICG-BFA confirmed adequate cortical perfusion in 2 patients with fusiform posterior circulation aneurysms<disease> , treated with a posterior inferior cerebellar artery ( PICA)- PICA and occipital artery ( OA)- to-third segment of the posterior cerebral artery ( P3) bypass with proximal vessel sacrifice , respectively. ICG-BFA was used in a third patient that underwent clip reconstruction/ intracranial-to-intracranial bypass for a large middle cerebral artery ( MCA) bifurcation aneurysm<disease> requiring sacrifice of the temporal M2 branch. In this case , a frontal M3 to temporal M3 side-to-side anastomosis was created to arborize the MCA tree and allow filling of both M2 territories through a single M2 branch. After aneurysm<disease> reconstruction , ICG-BFA identified an inadvertent occlusion of the frontal M2 that left the entire MCA distribution reliant on collateral flow but did not cause a neuromonitoring change. Repeat ICG-BFA after clip re-arrangement demonstrated aneurysm<disease> occlusion and equal flow in both frontal and temporal MCA cortical distributions from the arborization. ICG-BFA is a useful adjunct for intraoperative cortical flow assessment during cerebral revascularization for complex aneurysms<disease> requiring vessel sacrifice.