  The objective of this meta-analytical study was to investigate selected macrominerals , microminerals , and toxic heavy metals in the bovine whole-raw-milk ( WRM) samples of published data. An analytical data set was constructed from 72 different studies from 37 countries with two types of production systems: a conventional production system ( CPS) and an organic production system ( OPS) compared with commercially available or retail-store-available milk ( COM). Results of the meta-analytical study showed differences in the concentrations of macrominerals. Concentrations of Ca , Mg , K , and P were greater in the CPS samples , whereas Na was greater in the COM samples ( P < 0.05). Data also demonstrated that concentrations of microminerals like Cu , I , Fe , Mn , Se , and Zn in the organic WRM were lower ( P < 0.05) compared with the milk from CPS. The highest concentration of Ni was reported for COM ( P < 0.05); however , this value was below the minimum-risk level ( MRL). Concentrations of heavy metals like As and Ni were greater in CPS milk than those in organic milk ( P < 0.05). In addition , there were greater concentrations of Cd and Pb in the WRM from CPS versus that from the organic farms. Concentration of Al was lowest in the OPS milk versus Al in the CPS which was 6.5-fold greater than in organic milk. The amount of Hg was below the MRL of 0.01 μmol/L for all production systems. A high variability was observed in the published data regarding the country of origin. Raw milk originating from Europe and North<pathogen> America was characterized by concentrations of macro- and microminerals below the MRLs as compared with that from specific countries , which had some minerals above the MRLs. For example , concentrations of Pb were above the MRL in the milk samples from Brazil , Croatia , Egypt , Mexico , Nigeria , Palestine , Romania , Serbia , and Turkey. Moreover , data from this study indicate that organic dairy farms are characterized by lower concentrations of toxic heavy metals in the WRM compared with those from CPS dairy farms.