  Exogenous enzymatic supplementation of poultry feeds , including α-galactosidase and xylanase , has been shown to increase metabolically available energy , although little information has been published on the impact on amino acid digestibility. An experiment was conducted to investigate a multicarbohydrase containing α-galactosidase and xylanase on amino acid digestibility , ileal digestible energy ( IDE) , and CP in male broiler chicks. The experiment was a 2 × 2 ( diet × enzyme) factorial arrangement with 15 replicates of 8 male broilers per replicate raised for 21 d in a battery setting. The 2 dietary treatments included a positive control ( PC) and a negative control ( NC) diet formulated to contain 2.5 % less calculated AME and digestible amino acids. Each of these diets was fed with and without enzyme. Broilers were fed a starter diet from 0-14 d ( crumble) and a grower from 14-21 d ( pellet). Birds were sampled on day 21 to determine ileal amino acid digestibility , IDE , and CP digestibility. Titanium dioxide ( TiO2) was used as an indigestible marker for the determination of digestibility coefficients. Total ileal amino acid digestibility was increased ( P = 0.008) by 3.80 % with the inclusion of enzyme. Methionine and lysine digestibility was improved ( P < 0.05) with the inclusion of enzyme by 3.37 % and 2.61 % , respectively. Enzyme inclusion increased ( P = 0.001) cysteine digestibility by 9.3 %. Diet-influenced ileal amino acid digestibility with tryptophan , threonine , isoleucine , and valine digestibility being increased ( P < 0.05) in the PC when compared to the NC. IDE was decreased ( P = 0.037) in broilers fed the NC diet by 100 kcal/kg feed when compared to broilers fed the PC diet. Enzyme inclusion increased ( P = 0.047) IDE value by 90 kcal/kg. Crude protein digestibility was not influenced by diet; however , similar improvements in CP digestibility with enzyme inclusion were observed as with energy. These data support the benefits of a multicarbohydrase containing α-galactosidase and xylanase inclusion to improve nutrient and ileal amino acid digestibility across multiple dietary nutrient profiles.