  The analysis of trade networks as well as the spread of diseases within these systems focuses mainly on pure animal movements between farms. However , additional data included as edge weights can complement the informational content of the network analysis. However , the inclusion of edge weights can also alter the outcome of the network analysis. Thus , the aim of the study was to compare unweighted and weighted network analyses of a pork supply chain in Northern Germany and to evaluate the impact on the centrality parameters. Five different weighted network versions were constructed by adding the following edge weights: number of trade contacts , number of delivered livestock , average number of delivered livestock per trade contact , geographical distance and reciprocal geographical distance. Additionally , two different edge weight standardizations were used. The network observed from 2013 to 2014 contained 678 farms which were connected by 1,018 edges. General network characteristics including shortest path structure ( e.g. identical shortest paths , shortest path lengths) as well as centrality parameters for each network version were calculated. Furthermore , the targeted and the random removal of farms were performed in order to evaluate the structural changes in the networks. All network versions and edge weight standardizations revealed the same number of shortest paths ( 1,935). Between 94.4 to 98.9 % of the unweighted network and the weighted network versions were identical. Furthermore , depending on the calculated centrality parameters and the edge weight standardization used , it could be shown that the weighted network versions differed from the unweighted network ( e.g. for the centrality parameters based on ingoing trade contacts) or did not differ ( e.g. for the centrality parameters based on the outgoing trade contacts) with regard to the Spearman Rank Correlation and the targeted removal of farms. The choice of standardization method as well as the inclusion or exclusion of specific farm types ( e.g. abattoirs) can alter the results significantly. These facts have to be considered when centrality parameters are to be used for the implementation of prevention and control strategies in the case of an epidemic.