  Clinical and experimental evidence supports a role for cardiac glycosides ( CGs) as potential novel anticancer drugs. However , there are no studies reporting the effect of CGs on the inflammatory tumor microenvironment ( TME) , which plays a central role in tumor progression and invasiveness. We investigated whether digitoxin affects a) specific pathways involved in motility and/or activation of different cell types shaping TME , and b) cancer cell growth and invasiveness in response to TME-associated factors. To test our hypothesis , conditioned media ( CM) from polarized macrophages , and apoptotic or non-apoptotic ovarian cancer cells ( SKOV3) were tested as chemoattractants for endothelial cells , monocytes and cancer cells. We demonstrated that CM from M1 ( LPS/IFNγ) and M2 ( IL-4/ IL-13) polarized macrophages , which mimic inflammatory TME , increased both HUVEC migration and tubularization. Treatment of HUVECs with digitoxin at concentrations within its plasma therapeutic range counteracted these effects. Digitoxin affected the expression of neither M1 ( CD80/CD68) nor M2 ( CD206/CD163) activation markers , nor the amount of cell-bound IL-1β and CCL22. Accordingly , HUVEC migration in response to CM from digitoxin-treated activated macrophages was unchanged. These data point to a direct effect of digitoxin on HUVEC signaling rather than on the modulation of the cytokine profile released from activated macrophages. At variance with what observed for HUVECs , digitoxin did not prevent monocyte migration induced by SKOV3 CM. In addition , digitoxin significantly impaired SKOV3 growth and migration in response to M1 or M2 macrophage CM. Finally , we showed that digitoxin inhibited FAK phosphorylation in SKOV3 but not PYK2 phosphorylation in monocytes , thus providing a molecular mechanism accounting for the observed differential anti-migratory effect. Overall , digitoxin counteracted salient features of the inflammatory ovarian cancer microenvironment , laying the ground for potential digitoxin repositioning as an anticancer drug.