  The natural history of mantle cell lymphoma ( MCL) undergoing chemotherapy is a cyclical pattern of remission followed by recurrence of disease due to acquired chemotherapy resistance. The median age of the occurrence of MCL is 65 years , so half of the newly diagnosed MCL patients are considered `` elderly. '' The tolerance to long-term chemotherapy in elderly patients is decreased; hence , the response to frontline therapy used is of paramount importance. We hope that our review may guide clinicians in treating such populations in a more personalized and evidence-based manner.In the older patients with risk variables , frontline treatment is determined according to different body<symptom> status<symptom> of fit , unfit or compromised , and frail. In the fit patients , the pursuit of remission and prolongation of survival might currently justify the use of more intense and toxic therapies. For unfit or compromised older patients , disease control needs to be prioritized , maintaining a balance<symptom> between the benefits and toxicities of the treatment. For frail patients , tolerance of treatment and minimizing myelotoxicity should be the primary focus. `` Chemotherapy-free '' regimens are likely to be considered as the first-line strategy for this population. On the other hand , in the older MCL population without risk variables , observation or `` watch and wait '' can prevent overtreatment. Furthermore , more clinical trials and research studies on novel agents and targeted therapies need to be translated into the general population to provide optimal treatment and to guide personalized treatment. This review emphasizes the importance of frontline therapies for older MCL patients. MCL patients commonly experience a cyclical pattern of remission followed by recurrence of disease due to acquired chemotherapy resistance. As a special population , elderly patients have various comorbidities and decreased organ function , which may reduce the chances of undergoing treatment for recurrent disease. Thus , this older population of patients with MCL should be treated separately and exceptionally. So far , systematic reviews with regard to frontline treatment for older patients with MCL have not been encountered , but the hope is that this review may guide clinicians in treating such populations in a more personalized and evidence-based manner.