  On-site wastewater treatment systems ( OWTSs) are an international wastewater management strategy for rural and semi-rural communities without access to centralized sewage treatment. These systems are a suspected source of trace organic contaminants ( TOrCs) that may be responsible for endocrine disrupting effects to resident fish species in Minnesota Lakes. This study assessed localized porewater concentrations of TOrCs in near-shore environments across five Minnesota Lakes. Sampling sites were designated as either likely ( HOME) or unlikely ( REF) to receive OWTS discharges based on their proximity to shoreline households. Sampling sites also served as sunfish spawning habitats concurrently studied for biological impacts to resident adult males. Two-group hypothesis tests demonstrated significantly ( p = .02) higher total TOrC concentrations in HOME ( Mean = 841 ng/L) versus REF ( Mean = 222 ng/L) sites. HOME sites also contained a wider suite of TOrC detections relative to REF sites. The distance to the nearest household ( most proximal distance; MPD) negatively correlated ( r = -0.62) with total TOrC concentrations. However , 2,4-D and DEET were major contributors to these total concentrations , suggesting that anthropogenic influence from households may not be exclusively attributed to OWTS discharges. Further , TOrC presence and elevated nitrogen concentrations in REF site porewater suggest additional , non-household TOrC discharges to these lakes. Significantly higher blood concentrations of vitellogenin ( p = .03) and 11-ketotestosterone ( p = .01) were observed in adult male sunfish captured from HOME versus REF sites. Comparisons between chemical and biological data indicate enhanced bioactive effects of co-contaminants. The findings from this study demonstrate multiple diffuse transport pathways contribute to the presence of biologically active TOrC mixtures in Minnesota Lakes , and mitigation efforts should consider minimizing residential inputs of chemicals associated with both outdoor and OWTS activity.