  To synthesise and interpret previous findings with the aim of developing a theoretical framework for patient autonomy in a high-tech care context. Putting the somewhat abstract concept of patient autonomy into practice can prove difficult as when it is highlighted in healthcare literature , the patient perspective is often invisible. Autonomy presumes that a person has experience , education , self-discipline and decision-making capacity. Reference to autonomy in relation to patients in high-tech care environments could therefore be considered paradoxical , as in most cases , these persons are vulnerable , with impaired physical and/or metacognitive capacity , thus making extended knowledge of patient autonomy for these persons even more important. Theory development. The basic approaches in theory development by Walker and Avant were used to create a theoretical framework through an amalgamation of the results from three qualitative studies conducted previously by the same research group. A theoretical framework-the control-partnership-transition framework-was delineated disclosing different parts cocreating the prerequisites for patient autonomy in high-tech care environments. Assumptions and propositional statements that guide theory development were also outlined , as were guiding principles for use in day-to-day nursing care. Four strategies used by patients were revealed as follows: the strategy of control , the strategy of partnership , the strategy of trust and the strategy of transition. An extended knowledge base , founded on theoretical reasoning about patient autonomy , could facilitate nursing care that would allow people to remain/become autonomous in the role of patient in high-tech care environments. The control-partnership-transition framework would be of help in supporting and defending patient autonomy when caring for individual patients , as it provides an understanding of the strategies employed by patients to achieve autonomy in high-tech care contexts. The guiding principles for patient autonomy presented could be used in nursing guidelines.