  The goal of this systematic review of the literature was to summarize neurologic outcomes following neonatal and pediatric extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We conducted electronic searches of PubMed , Scopus , Web of Science , CINAHL , Cochrane , and EMBASE. Inclusion criteria included publication dates 2000-2016 , patient ages 0-18 years , and use of standardized measures to evaluate outcomes after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. We identified 3,497 unique citations; 60 full-text articles were included in the final review. Studies evaluated patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia ( 7) , cardiac disease ( 8) , cardiac arrest ( 13) , and mixed populations ( 32). Follow-up was conducted at hospital discharge in 10 studies ( 17 %) and at a median of 26 months ( interquartile range , 8-61 mo) after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in 50 studies ( 83 %). We found 55 outcome measures that assessed overall health and function ( 4) , global cognitive ability ( 7) , development ( 4) , motor function ( 5) , adaptive function ( 2) , behavior/mood ( 6) , hearing ( 2) , quality of life ( 2) , school achievement ( 5) , speech and language ( 6) , learning and memory ( 4) , and attention and executive function ( 8). Overall , 10 % to as many as 50 % of children scored more than 2 SDS below the population mean on cognitive testing. Behavior problems were identified in 16-46 % of children tested , and severe motor impairment was reported in 12 % of children. Quality of life of former extracorporeal membrane oxygenation patients evaluated at school age or adolescence ranged from similar to healthy peers , to 31-53 % having scores more than 1 SD below the population mean. This systematic review of the literature suggests that children who have undergone extracorporeal membrane oxygenation suffer from a wide range of disabilities. A meta-analysis was not feasible due to heterogeneity in pathologies , outcome measures , and age at follow-up , underscoring the importance of developing and employing a core set of outcomes measures in future extracorporeal membrane oxygenation studies.