  This work studies the morphological changes taking place in the Dama dama rumen during prenatal development using histomorphometrics , surface micro-structure and immunohistochemistry analysis as well as carrying out a comparative analysis of this species with other wild ( red deer) and domestic-type ruminants. A total of 25 fallow deer embryos and fetuses were used , from the first stage of prenatal life until birth. The appearance of the rumen from the primitive gastric tube was observed at 51 days of prenatal life ( CRL 3 cm , 21 % gestation). By 57 days ( CRL 4.3 cm , 24 % gestation) the ruminal wall comprised three layers: an internal epithelial layer , a middle layer of pluripotential blastemic tissue and an external layer or serosa. Ruminal pillars were visible at 72 days ( CRL 6 cm , 30 % gestation) , and by 85 days ( CRL 7.2 cm , 35 % gestation) ruminal papillae were starting to appear. Under scanning electron microscopy , by 80 days ( CRL 7 cm , 33 % gestation) small ruminal papillae were observed protruding from the surface. Morphometric results showed accelerated growth of the epithelial layer and the tunica muscularis at 180 days ( 75 % gestation). By contrast , the growth-rate of the lamina propria and submucosa declined from the early embryonic stages until birth. The serosa maintained a steady rate of growth until birth. Neuroendocrine cells ( synaptophysin) were detected at 85 days ( CRL 7.2 cm CRL , 35 % gestation) , while glial cell markers ( glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin) were found at 108 days ( CRL 31 cm , 45 % gestation) and 63 days ( CRL 4.4 cm , 26 % gestation) respectively. Neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were detected immunohistochemically at 180 days ( CRL 33 cm , 75 % gestation) and 192 days ( CRL 35 cm , 80 % gestation) respectively. In comparison to other wild and domestic-type ruminants , histomorphogenesis of the rumen in Dama dama was similar to that reported in red deer and goats , but rather slower than that observed for sheep or cattle.