  Spatial distribution of species genetic diversity is often driven by geographical distance ( isolation by distance) or environmental conditions ( isolation by environment) , especially under climate change scenarios such as Quaternary glaciations. Here , we used coalescent analyses coupled with ecological niche modelling ( ENM) , spatially explicit quantile regression analyses and the multiple matrix regression with randomization ( MMRR) approach to unravel the patterns of genetic differentiation in the widely distributed Neotropical savanna tree , Hancornia speciosa ( Apocynaceae). Due to its high morphological differentiation , the species was originally classified into six botanical varieties by Monachino , and has recently been recognized as only two varieties by Flora do Brasil 2020. Thus , H. speciosa is a good biological model for learning about evolution of phenotypic plasticity under genetic and ecological effects , and predicting their responses to changing environmental conditions. We sampled 28 populations ( 777 individuals) of Monachino 's four varieties of H. speciosa and used seven microsatellite loci to genotype them. Bayesian clustering showed five distinct genetic groups ( K = 5) with high admixture among Monachino 's varieties , mainly among populations in the central area of the species geographical range. Genetic differentiation among Monachino 's varieties was lower than the genetic differentiation among populations within varieties , with higher within-population inbreeding. A high historical connectivity among populations of the central Cerrado shown by coalescent analyses may explain the high admixture among varieties. In addition , areas of higher climatic suitability also presented higher genetic diversity in such a way that the wide historical refugium across central Brazil might have promoted the long-term connectivity among populations. Yet , FST was significantly related to geographic distances , but not to environmental distances , and coalescent analyses and ENM predicted a demographical scenario of quasi-stability through time. Our findings show that demographical history and isolation by distance , but not isolation by environment , drove genetic differentiation of populations. Finally , the genetic clusters do not support the two recently recognized botanical varieties of H. speciosa , but partially support Monachino 's classification at least for the four sampled varieties , similar to morphological variation.