  Lung functional image guided radiation therapy ( RT) that avoids irradiating highly functional regions has potential to reduce pulmonary toxicity following RT.. Tumor regression during RT is common , leading to recovery of lung function. We hypothesized that computed tomography ( CT) ventilation image-guided treatment planning reduces the functional lung dose compared to standard anatomic image-guided planning in 2 different scenarios with or without plan adaptation. CT scans were acquired before RT and during RT at 2 time points ( 16-20 Gy and 30-34 Gy) for 14 patients with locally advanced lung cancer. Ventilation images were calculated by deformable image registration of four-dimensional CT image data sets and image analysis. We created 4 treatment plans at each time point for each patient: functional adapted , anatomic adapted , functional unadapted , and anatomic unadapted plans. Adaptation was performed at 2 time points. Deformable image registration was used for accumulating dose and calculating a composite of dose-weighted ventilation used to quantify the lung accumulated dose-function metrics. The functional plans were compared with the anatomic plans for each scenario separately to investigate the hypothesis at a significance level of 0.05. Tumor volume was significantly reduced by 20 % after 16 to 20 Gy ( P = .02) and by 32 % after 30 to 34 Gy ( P < .01) on average. In both scenarios , the lung accumulated dose-function metrics were significantly lower in the functional plans than in the anatomic plans without compromising target volume coverage and adherence to constraints to critical structures. For example , functional planning significantly reduced the functional mean lung dose by 5.0 % ( P < .01) compared to anatomic planning in the adapted scenario and by 3.6 % ( P = .03) in the unadapted scenario. This study demonstrated significant reductions in the accumulated dose to the functional lung with CT ventilation image-guided planning compared to anatomic image-guided planning for patients showing tumor regression and changes in regional ventilation during RT..