  Gender dysphoria is the experience of marked distress due to incongruence between genetically determined gender and experienced gender. Treatment of gender dysphoria should be individualized and multidisciplinary , involving a combination of psychotherapy , social gender transition , cross-sex hormone therapy , gender-affirming surgery , and/or ancillary procedures and services. The goal of all treatment modalities is to alleviate distress and affirm the patient 's experienced gender identity. This article is the first in a 3-part series focused on the diagnostic assessment and non-operative treatment of gender dysphoria. Parts 2 and 3 focus on operative aspects of gender dysphoria treatment. To summarize the recommendations of the World Professional Association for Transgender Health ( WPATH) and the Endocrine Society ( ES) , as well as review published literature regarding the non-operative treatment of gender dysphoria. A review of relevant literature through January 2017 was performed via PubMed. WPATH guidelines regarding diagnosis and non-surgical treatment of gender dysphoria , specifically regimens and risks of cross-sex hormone therapy were reviewed. Few physicians have experience with the diagnosis or treatment of gender dysphoria , although the number of patients seeking treatment has risen substantially in recent years. As a result , clinicians have turned to published recommendations from WPATH and ES , both of which promote high-quality , evidence-based care for patients with gender dysphoria. Successful treatment requires an individualized multidisciplinary approach. Non-operative treatment is both safe and effective for the majority of patients with gender dysphoria. Guidelines from WPATH and ES , along with published literature pertaining to the diagnosis and non-operative treatment of gender dysphoria , were reviewed and summarized. Hadj-Moussa M , Ohl DA , Kuzon WM. Evaluation and Treatment of Gender Dysphoria to Prepare for Gender Confirmation Surgery. Sex Med Rev 2018; XX: XXX-XXX.