  Recruitment of participants from all population groups is a known challenge in social epidemiological research. A multitude of potentially useful strategies for the recruitment of ethnic minorities and certain migrant groups have been proposed. However , existing publications have not answered the question whether such strategies are applicable to a birth cohort study in Germany. The aim of the present study was to present recruitment strategies for migrants in a birth cohort using the example of the BaBi study. As a preparatory step , focus group discussions were conducted with pregnant and postpartum women and structured interviews with midwives and gynecologists in order to assess suitability of study information materials , questionnaires and language preferences. The pilot study , conducted from October 2013 to October 2016 , tested different recruitment strategies. The entire recruitment period was accompanied by continuous evaluation in order to assess and adapt the process to ensure successful recruitment of migrants. Of the 980 participants , 390 had a migration background ( 40 %). Both active and passive recruitment strategies were explored in which Turkish language translations and multicultural personnel were used. Passive recruitment via gynecological practices and midwives required pregnant women to have high levels of motivation. Active recruitment in postnatal wards ( where women were approached by study nurses after birth) increased the proportion of participants with a migration background from 22 to 49 %. Early monitoring of our recruitment strategy thus enabled us to improve participation rates. For recruitment of women with a migration background , it is crucial to use both careful preparation in the form of qualitative measures ( focus groups , structured interviews) and a pilot study. Extra resources should be planned from the beginning for diverse recruitment strategies and a higher personnel demand ( e. g. , for translations and back translations). Efforts for the inclusions<disease> of migrants in social epidemiological studies in Germany should be a routine process.