  The aim of this review was to identify , appraise and synthesize the best available evidence on the effectiveness of moisturizers , barrier creams , protective gloves , skin protection education and complex interventions ( a combination of two or more of the interventions listed here) in preventing occupational irritant hand dermatitis<disease> ( OIHD) in wet workers , comparing each intervention to an alternative intervention or to usual care ( workers ' regular skin care regimen). The most significant occupational skin problem potentially encountered in wet work occupations is occupational dermatitis<disease>. When the skin comes into contact with hazardous substances at work , this can cause occupational dermatitis<disease>. Substances which may cause occupational dermatitis<disease> include cleaning products , organic solvents , metalworking fluids , cement , flour , adhesives , other chemicals and even certain plants. Occupational skin disease has adverse effects on quality of life and the long term prognosis for skin health is poor unless workplace exposures are addressed. To date , no systematic review has been undertaken to determine the effectiveness of interventions for the primary prevention of OIHD in wet workers. The review included any workers from healthcare ( e.g. nurses , doctors and allied health professionals) and also people in different wet work occupations ( e.g. hairdressers , florists , catering workers , metal workers) at similar risk of OIHD. Studies that assessed the following interventions in the primary prevention of OIHD in wet workers at the workplace and at home ( before and after work) were included: Types of studies considered were experimental study designs including randomized controlled trials , non-randomized controlled trials , quasi-experimental , and before and after studies. Primary outcome measures were OIHD incidence , and secondary outcome measures were product evaluation and change of occupation because of OIHD versus staying in the occupation. Published and unpublished literature in the English language was sought between 2004 and 2017. The databases searched included: COCHRANE CENTRAL , MEDLINE , CINAHL , AMED and Embase. The search for unpublished studies included: Google Scholar , Open DOAR and Robert Gordon University 's thesis database , `` OPEN AIR ''. There were no studies located that met the inclusion requirements of this review. There is currently no evidence available to determine the effectiveness of interventions to prevent OIHD amongst wet workers that met this review 's inclusion criteria.