  Central and peripheral neural adaptations have been identified after anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) injury and reconstruction ( ACLR) and are hypothesized to contribute to posttraumatic muscle<symptom> dysfunction<symptom>. Limited evidence exists about the temporal nature of neuromuscular adaptations during early and late-term phases of recovery after ACLR , and no researchers have studied patients with posttraumatic osteoarthritis. To compare quadriceps neuromuscular function less than 2 years ( early) and more than 2 years ( late) after ACLR , including in patients who experienced posttraumatic knee osteoarthritis. Cross-sectional study. Laboratory. A total of 72 patients after ACLR , consisting of 34 early ( 9.0 ± 4.3 months postsurgery) , 30 late ( 70.5 ± 41.6 months postsurgery) , and 8 with osteoarthritis ( 115.9 ± 110.0 months postsurgery) , and 30 healthy control volunteers. Quadriceps function was measured bilaterally during a single visit to determine normalized Hoffmann reflex ( H: M ratio) , knee-extension maximal voluntary isometric contraction torque ( Nm/kg) , central activation ratio ( %) , fatigue<symptom> index ( % decline) , and active motor threshold ( %). Comparisons were made using 2-way analyses of variance to identify the effect of limb and group on each outcome measure. We calculated Cohen d effect sizes to assess the magnitude of difference between ACLR and matched control limbs for each group. Compared with healthy control limbs , involved-limb maximal voluntary isometric contraction was lower among all patients after ACLR ( P < .001 , Cohen d values = -1.00 to -1.75). The central activation ratio ( P < .001 , Cohen d = -1.74) and fatigue<symptom> index ( P = .003 , Cohen d = -0.95) were lower among patients only early after ACLR. The active motor threshold was higher among all patients after ACLR ( P < .001 , Cohen d values = -0.42 to -1.56). Neuromuscular impairments were present in patients early and late after ACLR , regardless of osteoarthritis status. Quadriceps strength and corticospinal excitability were impaired at each time point compared with values in healthy control individuals , suggesting the need to address cortical function early after ACLR.