  Retrospective review. Evaluate radiographic and clinical outcomes for the largest and youngest series of children , who underwent rigid occipito-cervical fixation for traumatic craniocervical dissociation ( tCCD). Traumatic craniocervical dissociation is devastating. Children are at high risk but make up a large number of survivors. Non-rigid fixation has traditionally been favored over screw and rod constructs due inherent challenges involved with instrumenting the pediatric craniocervical junction. Therefore , outcomes for rigid occipito-cervical instrumentation in infants and young children with tCCD remain uncertain. Retrospective review of children who survived tCCD between 2006 and 2016 and underwent rigid occipito-cervical fixation. Fifteen children , from 8 months to 8 years old ( mean , 3.8 years) , were either a passenger ( n = 11) or a pedestrian ( n = 4) in a motor vehicle accident. Seven patients had weakness<symptom>: 5 with quadriplegia , 1 with hemiparesis<symptom> , and 1 with bilateral upper extremity paresis. Ten patients had concurrent C1-2 instability. At last follow-up , 4 patients had improved motor function: 1 with bilateral upper extremity paresis and 1 with hemiparesis<symptom> regained full strength , 1 with quadriplegia regained function on one side while another regained function in bilateral upper extremities. All underwent rigid posterior occipito-cervical fixation , with two patients requiring additional anterior and posterior fixation at non-contiguous levels. Fourteen patients were stable on flexion-extension X-rays at a mean follow-up of 31 months ( 9- 1 year or longer , 7- two years or longer). There were no cases of deformity , growth disturbance , or subaxial instability. Children who survive tCCD may regain function after stabilization. Rigid internal rod and screw fixation in infants and young children safely provided long-term stability. We advocate using C2 translaminar screws to exploit the favorable anatomy of pediatric lamina to minimize the risks of OC instrumentation. 4.