  Robust semiparametric models for recurrent events have received increasing attention in the analysis of clinical trials in a variety of diseases including chronic<symptom> heart<symptom> failure<symptom>. In comparison to parametric recurrent event models , robust semiparametric models are more flexible in that neither the baseline event rate nor the process inducing between-patient heterogeneity needs to be specified in terms of a specific parametric statistical model. However , implementing group sequential designs in the robust semiparametric model is complicated by the fact that the sequence of Wald statistics does not follow asymptotically the canonical joint distribution. In this manuscript , we propose two types of group sequential procedures for a robust semiparametric analysis of recurrent events. The first group sequential procedure is based on the asymptotic covariance of the sequence of Wald statistics and it guarantees asymptotic control of the type I error rate. The second procedure is based on the canonical joint distribution and does not guarantee asymptotic type I error rate control but is easy to implement and corresponds to the well-known standard approach for group sequential designs. Moreover , we describe how to determine the maximum information when planning a clinical trial with a group sequential design and a robust semiparametric analysis of recurrent events. We contrast the operating characteristics of the proposed group sequential procedures in a simulation study motivated by the ongoing phase 3 PARAGON-HF trial ( ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01920711) in more than 4600 patients with chronic<symptom> heart<symptom> failure<symptom> and a preserved ejection fraction. We found that both group sequential procedures have similar operating characteristics and that for some practically relevant scenarios , the group sequential procedure based on the canonical joint distribution has advantages with respect to the control of the type I error rate. The proposed method for calculating the maximum information results in appropriately powered trials for both procedures.