  To examine the performance of screening for early , preterm and term pre-eclampsia ( PE) at 11-13 weeks ' gestation by maternal factors and combinations of mean arterial pressure ( MAP) , uterine artery ( UtA) pulsatility index ( PI) , serum placental growth factor ( PlGF) and serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A ( PAPP-A). The data for this study were derived from three previously reported prospective non-intervention screening studies at 11 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks ' gestation in a combined total of 61174 singleton pregnancies , including 1770 ( 2.9 %) that developed PE. Bayes ' theorem was used to combine the prior distribution of gestational age at delivery with PE , obtained from maternal characteristics , with various combinations of biomarker multiples of the median ( MoM) values to derive patient-specific risks of delivery with PE at < 37 weeks ' gestation. The performance of such screening was estimated. In pregnancies that developed PE , compared to those without PE , the MoM values of UtA-PI and MAP were increased and those of PAPP-A and PlGF were decreased , and the deviation from normal was greater for early than late PE for all four biomarkers. Combined screening by maternal factors , UtA-PI , MAP and PlGF predicted 90 % of early PE , 75 % of preterm PE and 41 % of term PE , at a screen-positive rate of 10 %; inclusion of PAPP-A did not improve the performance of screening. The performance of screening depended on the racial origin of the women; on screening by a combination of maternal factors , MAP , UtA-PI and PlGF and using a risk cut-off of 1 in 100 for PE at < 37 weeks in Caucasian women , the screen-positive rate was 10 % and detection rates for early , preterm and term PE were 88 % , 69 % and 40 % , respectively. With the same method of screening and risk cut-off in women of Afro-Caribbean racial origin , the screen-positive rate was 34 % and detection rates for early , preterm and term PE were 100 % , 92 % and 75 % , respectively. Screening by maternal factors and biomarkers at 11-13 weeks ' gestation can identify a high proportion of pregnancies that develop early and preterm PE. © 2018 Crown copyright. Ultrasound in Obstetrics & Gynecology © 2018 ISUOG.