  This study focuses on the comparison of single entropy measures for ventricular response analysis-based AF detection. To enhance the performance of entropy-based AF detectors , we developed a normalized fuzzy entropy , ( Formula: see text) , a novel metric that ( 1) uses a fuzzy function to determine vector similarity , ( 2) replaces probability estimation with density estimation for entropy approximation , ( 3) utilizes a flexible distance threshold parameter , and ( 4) adjusts for heart rate by subtracting the natural log value of the mean RR interval. An AF detector based on ( Formula: see text) was trained using the MIT-BIH atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( AF) database , and tested on the MIT-BIH normal sinus rhythm ( NSR) and MIT-BIH arrhythmia databases. The ( Formula: see text)- based AF detector was compared to AF detectors based on three other entropy measures: sample entropy ( ( Formula: see text)) , fuzzy measure entropy ( ( Formula: see text)) and coefficient of sample entropy ( ( Formula: see text)) , over three standard window sizes. To classify AF and non-AF rhythms , ( Formula: see text) achieved the highest area under receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC) values of 92.72 % , 95.27 % and 96.76 % for 12- , 30- and 60-beat window lengths respectively. This was higher than the performance of the next best technique , ( Formula: see text) , over all windows sizes , which provided respective AUCs of 91.12 % , 91.86 % and 90.55 %. ( Formula: see text) and ( Formula: see text) resulted in lower AUCs ( below 90 %) over all window sizes. ( Formula: see text) also provided superior performance for all other tested statistics , including the Youden index , sensitivity , specificity , accuracy , positive predictivity and negative predictivity. In conclusion , we show that ( Formula: see text) can be used to accurately identify AF from RR interval time series. Furthermore , longer window lengths ( up to one minute) increase the performance of all entropy-based AF detectors under evaluation except the ( Formula: see text)- based method. Our results demonstrate that the new developed normalized fuzzy entropy is an accurate measure for detecting AF.