  Spinal cord injury ( SCI) is associated with marked bone loss and an increased risk of fracture. We randomized 61 individuals with chronic SCI and low bone mass to receive either teriparatide 20 μg/d plus sham vibration 10 min/d ( n = 20) , placebo plus vibration 10 min/d ( n = 20) , or teriparatide 20 μg/d plus vibration 10 min/d ( n = 21). Patients were evaluated for 12 months; those who completed were given the opportunity to participate in an open-label extension where all participants ( n = 25) received teriparatide 20 μg/d for an additional 12 months and had the optional use of vibration ( 10 min/d). At the end of the initial 12 months , both groups treated with teriparatide demonstrated a significant increase in areal bone mineral density ( aBMD) at the spine ( 4.8 % to 5.5 %). The increase in spine aBMD was consistent with a marked response in serum markers of bone metabolism ( ie , CTX , P1NP , BSAP) , but no treatment effect was observed at the hip. A small but significant increase ( 2.2 % to 4.2 %) in computed tomography measurements of cortical bone at the knee was observed in all groups after 12 months; however , the magnitude of response was not different amongst treatment groups and improvements to finite element-predicted bone strength were not observed. Teriparatide treatment after the 12-month extension resulted in further increases to spine aBMD ( total increase from baseline 7.1 % to 14.4 %) , which was greater in patients initially randomized to teriparatide. Those initially randomized to teriparatide also demonstrated 4.4 % to 6.7 % improvements in hip aBMD after the 12-month extension , while all groups displayed increases in cortical bone measurements at the knee. To summarize , teriparatide exhibited skeletal activity in individuals with chronic SCI that was not augmented by vibration stimulation. Without additional confirmatory data , the location-specific responses to teriparatide would not be expected to provide clinical benefit in this population. © 2018 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.