  The study of both original and decaying compounds is relevant in understanding the chemistry behind the deterioration processes , above all in open museum contexts where environmental stressors affect the artefacts. In this sense , a combination of non-invasive spectroscopy techniques ( Raman spectroscopy , μ-X-ray fluorescence and X-ray diffraction) was applied on an ancient Roman building ( 130 CE) , the `` Casa di Diana '' Mithraeum at Ostia Antica archaeological site. The aim is to study the raw materials , manufacturing and decaying products of the two observed types of Roman fired bricks ( red and yellow) that compose the building. The present study estimates an illite raw material of carbonate-bearing marine clay likely referring to the common deposits of central/southern Italy , which contain calcite as accessory phase and a-plastic fraction constituted by quartz , feldspar and opaques. This clay material was added with volcanic temper characterised by abundant clinopyroxene and analcime ( from analcimization of leucite) that are typical of the Roman Province volcanism. The firing would be probably the result of oxidizing conditions , as proved by the hematite presence. Thanks to the existence of specific neoformed mineral phases during firing it was possible to assess different temperatures ranges. In detail , the red/orange bricks , for the existence of gehlenite ( formed from calcite and its reaction with silicates) , were fired at 800-900 °C range; whereas , the yellow ones are characterised by the lack of gehlenite and the disappearance of illite/muscovite , which indicates firing temperature at over 900 °C. Regarding the decaying products , the gypsum covers most of the surface of most bricks , both red and the yellow ones , but these latter are more susceptible to environmental stressors ( sulphates and carbonates). Therefore , this work points out how by integrated non-invasive approaches it is possible trace back to original firing temperature , technology of manufacture , interpreting ceramic data.