  A breach of the medial acetabular wall is a phenomenon seen frequently due to over-reaming during total hip arthroplasty ( THA). The consequences of this issue are not fully understood particularly in cementless THA. A retrospective study was performed to answer whether: immediate postoperative full-weight-bearing in the presence of a medial acetabular wall breach after THA results in more short-term revisions of the acetabular component , and increases the risk for migration of the acetabular component? Immediate full-weight-bearing in the presence of a medial breach is not associated with an increased likelihood for acetabular-related revision surgery or migration of the cup. In this retrospective cohort study , consecutive patients ( n = 95; mean age 68 ± 13 years; 67 female) who underwent THA with an uncemented acetabular component were identified and a retrospective chart review was performed ( follow-up 23 ± 17 months , range 6 to 79 months). The presence of a postoperative radiographic medial acetabular breach was documented and the need for revision surgery and the rate of acetabular component migration were assessed during follow-up. Some extent of radiographic medial acetabular wall breach was seen in 26/95 patients ( 27 %). With regard to the primary outcome , 2/95 patients ( 2 %) required revision surgery during follow-up. All revision surgeries occurred in the group without a medial breach ( p = 0.280) for causes related to the femoral or the head components. Persistent pain was present in 1/26 patients ( 3.8 %) in the medial breach group and 8/69 patients in the control group ( 11.6 %; p = 0.436). In the radiographic follow-up ( n = 81) , there was no significant difference between the control group and the medial breach group with regard to cup migration ( Δ ilio-ischial overlap ( distance between the ilio-ischial line and a parallel line tangential to the acetabular cup on AP views): -0.5 ± 0.9 mm ( range , -2.9 to 0.8) vs. -0.3 ± 1.7 mm ( range , -1.9 to 2.2) , Δ overlap tangent ( defined as the distance between the two crossings of ilio-ischial line and the acetabular component on AP views): -2.2 ± 6.1 mm ( range , -21.4 to 0.0) vs. 0.4 ± 6.9 mm ( range , -6.2 to 17.6)). Similarly , according to variation in the ilio-ischial overlap distance between postoperative and follow-up on pelvic AP views , 0/56 hips ( 0 %) had cup migration ≥ 5 mm in the control group versus 1/25 ( 4 %) in the medial breach cohort ( p = 0.3). In this retrospective observation of patients with immediate postoperative full-weight-bearing after THA , a radiographic breach of the medial acetabular wall was not associated with an increased risk for short-term revision surgery or radiographic migration at follow-up. According to the findings of this study and in the light of previous biomechanical studies , there is no clear evidence for postoperative partial weight-bearing in case of a medial breach as far as the surgeon feels that the acetabular component is stable. IV , Retrospective cohort study.