  Western society is facing a health epidemic due to the increasing incidence of dementia in aging populations , and there are still few effective diagnostic methods , minimal treatment options , and no cure. Aging is the greatest risk factor for memory<symptom> loss<symptom> that occurs during the natural aging process , as well as being the greatest risk factor for neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer 's disease. Greater understanding of the biochemical pathways that drive a healthy aging brain toward dementia ( pathological aging or Alzheimer 's disease) , is required to accelerate the development of improved diagnostics and therapies. Unfortunately , many animal models of dementia model chronic amyloid precursor protein overexpression , which although highly relevant to mechanisms of amyloidosis and familial Alzheimer 's disease , does not model well dementia during the natural aging process. A promising animal model reported to model mechanisms of accelerated natural aging and memory<symptom> impairments<symptom> , is the senescence accelerated murine prone strain 8 ( SAMP8) , which has been adopted by many research group to study the biochemical transitions that occur during brain aging. A limitation to traditional methods of biochemical characterization is that many important biochemical and elemental markers ( lipid saturation , lactate , transition metals) can not be imaged at meso- or microspatial resolution. Therefore , in this investigation , we report the first multimodal biospectroscopic characterization of the SAMP8 model , and have identified important biochemical and elemental alterations , and colocalizations , between 4 month old SAMP8 mice and the relevant control ( SAMR1) mice. Specifically , we demonstrate direct evidence of Zn deficiency within specific subregions of the hippocampal CA3 sector , which colocalize with decreased lipid unsaturation. Our findings also revealed colocalization of decreased lipid unsaturation and increased lactate in the corpus callosum white matter , adjacent to the hippocampus. Such findings may have important implication for future research aimed at elucidating specific biochemical pathways for therapeutic intervention.