  In many health systems , general practitioners ( GPs) exhibit high levels of isolation and , at the same time , low levels of organizational identification , which can hinder their individual performance. The extant health care literature suggests that the physicians ' belief that organizational goals are important , the adoption of performance measurement systems , and knowledge-sharing practices affect their individual performance. Most research has investigated these constructs in isolation , however , rather than explored their collective impact on GPs ' individual performance. The aim of this study was to explore how GPs ' belief in goal importance , use of performance measures , and knowledge exchange affect their individual performance , here defined as their individual achievement of organizational goals. We developed five hypotheses regarding how GPs ' belief in goal importance and use of performance measures may affect individual performance , as well as how knowledge exchange may moderate these relationships. We tested our theoretical conjectures using data collected in a community of GPs in the Italian National Health Service. A survey questionnaire was administered to gather information about the GPs ' level of belief in goal importance , use of performance measures , and perception about knowledge exchange in their primary care units. We considered two measures of GPs ' individual performance: efficiency and appropriateness of drug prescription. We tested our hypotheses using probit regressions. Our findings show that perceived importance of organizational goals and use of performance measures have a positive effect on GPs ' individual performance. Meanwhile , GPs ' use of performance measures moderates the relationship between their belief in goal importance and individual performance. Finally , perceived knowledge exchange moderates the relationships between belief in goal importance/use of performance measures and individual performance. Executives could improve GPs ' individual performance through interventions that reinforce their belief that organizational goals are important , facilitate a more intensive use of performance measures , and encourage knowledge exchange practices.