  Exposure to whole body vibration ( WBV) is common in construction , agriculture , mining , and transportation. There is strong epidemiological evidence linking WBV with adverse health outcomes in the long-term , including low back pain. Fortunately , WBV exposure guidelines to prevent long-term musculoskeletal disorders and discomfort exist. In the shorter-term , it has been speculated that occupational levels of WBV may lead to increased risk of vehicle accidents and falls during egress; however , the acute effects of different vibration intensities remain poorly understood and it is uncertain whether established standards protect the worker from injurious short-term effects. The aim of this study was to investigate the acute sensorimotor , physical , and cognitive effects of occupationally-relevant , simulated whole body vibration ( WBV) at levels equivalent to international standard guideline thresholds for long-term discomfort and musculoskeletal disorder risk. Eighteen participants were recruited to perform four , 60-min conditions: ( i) Control-no vibration , ( ii) Low vibration-equivalent to the exposure action value , ( iii) Shock-transient impacts at 1-min intervals superimposed on the Low condition , and ( iv) High vibration-equivalent to the exposure limit value. Whole body vibration was simulated using data based on field-collected accelerations experienced by rural workers while operating an all-terrain vehicle. This vibration signal was manipulated to achieve required intensities for each condition and simulated with a 6 degree-of-freedom hexapod platform. Before and after each condition , we collected: rating of perceived body discomfort , rating of perceived headache<symptom> , postural sway , blink frequency , King-Devick test , and psychomotor vigilance task. Pre- and post-condition data in each condition were submitted to either a paired t-test ( parametric) or Wilcoxon signed-rank test ( non-parametric). To determine differences between conditions , each condition 's post-condition data was normalized to its pre-condition value and entered as the dependent variable in a repeated measures analysis of variance. All conditions , including Control , led to increased upper body discomfort when compared to pre-exposure baseline. The Low condition led to increased discomfort in seven body locations , headache<symptom> ( 91 % increase from baseline; t = -2.44 , P = 0.03) , and postural imbalance ( 53 % increase from baseline; t = -2.88 , P = 0.01) , but the effect on cognitive functioning was less clear. Shock<symptom> condition led to whole body discomfort , specifically at nine upper body and lower body locations. The High condition led to increased whole body discomfort at all 10 body locations , headache<symptom> ( 154 % increase from baseline; t = -2.91 , P = 0.01) , postural imbalance ( 61 % increase from baseline; t = -2.57 , P = 0.02) , and decrements in vigilance ( mean reaction time: 6 % increase from baseline , t = -3.27 , P = 0.005; Number of lapses: 100 % increase from baseline , S = -42.5 , P = 0.002). Although the number of pre-post condition effects increased with higher vibration intensity , these effects were not significantly different from sitting without vibration. Therefore , current guideline thresholds might not protect the worker from acute WBV effects. However , further research is needed to discern these effects from other sources of WBV. Based on this study , future WBV interventions and action controls should not only address vibration reduction , but also consider potential effects from prolonged sitting.