  More than one billion people worldwide live with a disability. Despite advances in recognising inequalities experienced by people with disabilities , barriers to services and stigmatisation still exist. The aims of this study were to explore: ( 1) perceptions and experiences of services specifically available to people with disabilities and their caregivers and ( 2) the perception of disability. In-depth interviews were conducted with 20 caregivers of persons with a disability and 14 key informants in two cities in Peru; Lima and Iquitos. The social-ecological model was used as a framework to analyse and present data , stratifying the key barriers and opportunities at each level. At the individual level , interviewees reported a lack of support at the time of diagnosis , poor coping strategies , and communicated their desire for , and willingness to participate in support groups if they were established. On the community level , education and awareness were reportedly lacking and acts of discrimination and stigmatisation were common. Participants described opportunities for community-level campaigns to increase exposure and awareness of disability rights and inclusion. A dissatisfaction with government programmes was reported , as services were not available to everyone , in part due to geographical and socio-economic barriers. The main findings were the lack of emotional , informational , and tangible support available to caregivers of people with disabilities , often exacerbated by lower socio-economic status; a lack of transparency of care pathways available to people with disabilities; and a lack of visibility of people with disability in both Lima and Iquitos. Implications for Rehabilitation Support groups could offer additional support to caregivers of people with disabilities in Lima , mitigating existing gaps in services for people with disabilities , and their families. Education campaigns implemented on a community level could start to curb discrimination and stigmatisation of people with disabilities in Lima and Iquitos. A national census with inclusive language and methodology specifically designed to capture the percentage of the population currently living with a disability would give a real indication of what services are needed in Peru. The provision of clear , publically available routes of attention would assist caregivers and families to access services for people with disabilities.