  Robotic surgical procedures have become more common in female pelvic reconstruction. Purported benefits of robotic assisted pelvic floor reconstruction ( RAPFR) procedures include shorter hospital stay , faster recovery , lower blood<symptom> loss<symptom> , and decreased postoperative pain. Following RAPFR procedures , the current accepted practice is discharge after a one-night hospitalization. We assessed whether same day discharge ( SDD) affects the short term safety of and patient satisfaction with robotic assisted pelvic floor reconstructive procedures , relative to those who remain hospitalized overnight. We retrospectively reviewed the charts of women who underwent RAPFR procedures between October 2015 and October 2016. A same day discharge protocol for RAPFR was initiated in July 2016. To date , 10 patients have undergone SDD. These patients were compared to the consecutive patients from the prior 9 months who stayed overnight. To evaluate short term safety , we reviewed the medical record for any unscheduled Cleveland Clinic emergency department ( ED) and/or office visits within 30 days of the RAPFR procedure. We then sent a mailed survey to all patients , querying their pelvic organ prolapse-related PGI-I and also offering a postoperative satisfaction questionnaire. Demographic , perioperative , postoperative data and survey results were compared using Student 's t test and Fisher 's exact test. In our series , 38 patients ( 95 %) underwent robotic assisted sacrocolpopexy ( RASC). Only 2 ( 5 %) had a different RAPFR procedure , a robotic assisted vaginal mesh excision. Concomitant robotic assisted supracervical hysterectomy ( SCH) was performed in 9 patients ( 30 %) in the overnight group , whereas 1 of the SDD patients underwent SCH ( 10 %). Demographics and operative characteristics did not differ between groups. Ultimately , patients in the SDD group were no more likely than the overnight group to require an unscheduled ED or office visit in the early postoperative period. With respect to satisfaction , no significant differences were observed between groups , with both groups noting substantial improvement in POP symptoms following surgery. In this pilot study , same day discharge after RAPFR procedures appears to be safe and feasible. RAPFR procedures were well-tolerated , with no difference in ED or non-urology office visits occurring during the early post-operative period in our series , regardless of length of stay. Patient satisfaction was equivalent between groups and universally high.