  To establish HPLC-MS/MS method for simultaneous determination of 14 toxic or active components in Fuzi formula granules , and further analyze the quality consistency of 29 batches of formula granules by considering the cluster analysis ( CA) , principal component analysis ( PCA) , and partial least squares discriminant analysis ( PLS-DA) and other chemometrics methods. Phenomenonex Gemini C18 column ( 4.6 mm × 150 mm , 5 μm) was used with 0.1 % formic acid solution ( A)- acetonitrile ( B) as the mobile phase. The mass spectrum was scanned by ESI ⁺ multiple reaction monitoring ( MRM) mode. The contents of aconitine , mesaconitine , hypaconitine , Indaconitine , benzoylaconine , benzoylmesaconine , benzoylhypaconitine , aconine , fuziline , neoline , talatisamine , songorine , higenamine and salsoline were determined. The results showed that 14 compounds had a good linear relationship within their respective concentration range ( R ² > 0.990 0). The limit of quantification was 2.07-7.71 mg · L ⁻¹ , and the average recovery was 96.07 % -102.2 %. The content determination results demonstrated that all batches of Fuzi formula granules had very low hypertoxic ingredients and high safety , while the content of active ingredients was greatly different. CA and PCA results showed that there were significant differences in the formula granules between two manufacturers; even though the different batches of samples from the same manufacturer had certain differences , but the difference in manufacturer A was less than that of B. Further PLS-DA showed that the content of cardiotonic substance salsola in the formula granules from manufacturer A was generally higher , while the contents of analgesic and anti-inflammatory substances benzoylmesaconitine and fuziline were generally lower than those in the products from manufacturer B. In conclusion , the safety of Fuzi formula granules was assured well , but the consistency needed to be improved. We recommend that all manufacturers establish strict standard for decoctions in the production process , and form a unified standard method to produce better Fuzi formula granules.