  Due to advances in healthcare and treatment options , there is a need for pharmacists with additional post-graduate residency training. With the growing need for residency-trained pharmacists , obtaining a post-graduate pharmacy residency has become more competitive. The objective of this study was to capture the perspectives of post-graduate year 1 residency programme directors ( RPDs) in the United States ( US) regarding aspects of a candidate 's application and interview they found most important when selecting future residents. A cross-sectional , electronic survey was distributed via e-mail to PGY-1 pharmacy RPDs in the USA. RPDs were identified via the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists ' pharmacy residency directory. Data related to programme demographics , candidate applications and interview evaluations were collected. RPDs ' perceptions were captured via a 5-point Likert scale ( 1 = strongly disagree; 5 = strongly agree). A total of 327 ( 26.6 %) RPDs completed the survey. RPDs highly considered overall compatibility ( mean Likert score: 4.9) , letters of recommendation ( 4.6) and letter of interest ( 4.5) when inviting candidates for on-site interviews. Residency programmes focusing in acute care valued hospital pharmacy work experience more compared to non-acute care-focused residency programmes ( 4.2 vs 2.9). During the interview , critical thinking ability ( 4.8) , verbal communication ( 4.8) and overall compatibility ( 4.9) were viewed as highly important when considering ranking of candidates. Due to the competitive nature of obtaining a residency programme , insight from RPDs on factors they consider significant when assessing prospective residents is valuable. The results from this study show that a strong letter of intent , letters of recommendations and overall compatibility are considered important by RPDs and should be used by candidates to better prepare themselves for residency applications. Additionally , the candidate should remain knowledgeable about the residency programme and be able to respond to questions asked during the residency interview process.