  In cows with uterine torsion , clinical parameters and different treatments were evaluated with regards to their success. The aim of the study was to investigate important factors for diagnosis and prognosis of uterine torsion and their consequences for treatment decisions. The study presents 114 cases of uterine torsion documented under field conditions. The cows were examined before retorsion of the uterus and immediately post partum. In cases of good maternal preparation for parturition , neonatal mortality was 14.9 % , while in cases of insufficient preparation , this rose to 58.3 % ( p = 0.006). When uterine torsion lasted > 12 hours , only 34.8 % of the calves survived , while in cases with a duration of ˂ 6 hours or 6-12 hours , 85.7 % and 92.2 % of the calves survived , respectively ( p ˂ 0.001). In 82.5 % of the cases , intravaginal manual rotation of the fetus and uterus was performed , while in 17.5 % of the cases , cows were rolled by simultaneously fixating the uterus and fetus with a plank. No statistically significant differences were found between these two treatment types regarding neonatal mortality ( 4.7 % vs. 18.2 %; p = 0.139) or lacerations of the dam ( 31.9 % vs. 42.1 %; p = 0.391). A delayed extraction of the calf after successful retorsion and waiting for widening of the cervical canal is an option in cases of insufficient dilatation of the cervical canal , even when there is a significantly higher risk for lacerations of the dam ( 57.2 %) compared to an immediate extraction ( 26.8 %; p = 0.018). As the duration of manipulation increases , the extent of injury to the dam also increases significantly ( p ˂ 0.001). The quality of maternal preparation for parturition in cows with uterine torsion can be used as a prognostic factor for calf survival. Under field conditions , most of the cases of uterine torsion can be successfully treated manually. An appropriate and indication-oriented use of the rolling method with the application of a plank can be recommended. In cases of uterine torsion , proper periparturient monitoring and early intervention are of crucial importance for the course of the disease and for the prognosis of the dam and offspring.