  Efficient fuelling is essential for migratory birds because fuel loads and fuelling rates affect individual fitness and survival during migration. Many migrant shorebirds are exposed to oil pollution and its toxic constituents , polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs) , at migratory staging sites , which has the potential to interfere with avian refuelling physiology. In this study , we orally dosed shorebirds with environmentally-relevant PAH mixtures to simulate dietary exposure during staging. Forty-nine wild-caught Sanderling ( Calidris alba) were exposed to 0 ( control) , 12.6 ( low) , 126 ( medium) , or 1260 ( high) μg total PAH/kg body weight/day. Birds were dosed during a 21-day period of autumn pre-migratory fuelling to mimic the typical staging duration of Sanderling. We measured daily changes in mass and fat loads , as well as ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase ( EROD) activity , serum biochemical profiles , and liver mass and lipid content following dosing. All dose groups gained fat and increased in mass ( size-corrected) during the study period , with females having a higher average body mass than males. However , mass gain was 3.9 , 5.4 , and 3.8 times lower in the low , medium , and high dose groups , respectively , relative to controls , and body mass in the medium and high dose groups significantly declined near the end of the experiment. EROD activity showed a dose-dependent increase and was significantly elevated in the high dose group relative to controls. Higher individual EROD activity was associated with reduced serum bile acid and elevated serum creatine kinase concentrations in both sexes , and with elevated serum lipase concentrations in females. These results suggest that PAH exposure in Sanderling can interfere with mechanisms of lipid transport and metabolism , can cause muscle damage , and can lead to reduced overall fat loads that are critical to staging duration , departure decisions , migratory speed , and flight range. Given that many shorebirds migrate thousands of kilometers between the breeding and wintering grounds and frequently aggregate at key staging sites that are subject to contamination , PAH exposure likely represents a significant threat to shorebird migratory success.