  Tetracycline hydrochloride ( TH) , indomethacin ( IM) , and bezafibrate ( BF) belong to the three different important classes of pharmaceuticals , which are well known for their toxicity and environmental concerns. However , studies are still elusive to highlight the mechanistic toxicity of these pharmaceuticals and rank them using both , the toxicity prediction and confirmation approaches. Therefore , we employed the next generation toxicity testing in 21st century ( TOX21) tools and estimated the in vitro/vivo toxic endpoints of mentioned pharmaceuticals , and then confirmed them using in vitro/vivo assays. We found significant resemblance in the results obtained via both approaches , especially in terms of in vivo LC50 s and developmental toxicity that ranked IM as most toxic among the studied pharmaceuticals. However , TH appeared most toxic with the lowest estimated AC50s , the highest experimental IC50s , and DNA damages in vitro. Contrarily , IM was found as congener with priority concern to activate the Pi3k-Akt-mTOR pathway in vitro at concentrations substantially lower than that of TH and BF. Further , IM exposure at lower doses ( 2.79-13.97 μM) depressed the pharmaceuticals detoxification phase I ( CYP450 s) , phase II ( UGTs , SULTs) , and phase III ( TPs) pathways in zebrafish , whereas , at relatively higher doses , TH ( 2.08-33.27 μM) and BF ( 55.28-884.41 μM) partially activated these pathways , which ultimately caused the developmental toxicity in the following order: IM > TH > BF. In addition , we also ranked these pharmaceuticals in terms of their particular toxicity to myogenesis , hematopoiesis , and hepatogenesis in zebrafish embryos. Our results revealed that IM significantly affected myogenesis , hematopoiesis , and hepatogenesis , while TH and BF induced prominent effects on hematopoiesis via significant downregulation of associated genetic markers , such as drl , mpx , and gata2a. Overall , our findings confirmed that IM has higher toxicity than that of TH and BF , therefore , the consumption of these pharmaceuticals should be regulated in the same manner to ensure human and environmental safety.