  The purpose was to report our initial experience with online markerless 3-dimensional ( 3D) spine position monitoring. We used template matching plus triangulation of fluoroscopic kilovoltage images acquired with the gantry-mounted imager during flattening filter-free volumetric modulated arc spine stereotactic body radiation therapy delivery on a conventional linear accelerator. Kilovoltage images were acquired at 7 frames per second and streamed to a stand-alone computer. Two-dimensional templates ( 1/ °) containing the clinical target volume were generated from planning computed tomography ( CT) data before the first fraction and matched to the ( prefiltered) kilovoltage images during treatment. Each 2-dimensional registration was triangulated with multiple previous registrations , resulting in the 3D spine position offset from the planned position in real time during treatment. If the offset was more than a certain threshold , the treatment was manually stopped and a cone beam CT scan was acquired to reposition the patient. During irradiation of 10 fractions in 3 patients , images were analyzed at an average rate of 1.0 to 1.3 frames per second; all other frames were excluded from the analysis because of limitations in processing speed. As a result of the start-up period of triangulation and poorer image quality at the start of treatment ( lateral imaging angles) , the first 3D position was determined after an average of 4.9 seconds. On the basis of the position results , we interrupted the treatment beam 2 times for different patients. In all cases the spine position results corresponded well with the CT-cone beam CT match values used for subsequent repositioning. For the first time , we have determined the spine position during stereotactic body radiation therapy delivery on a standard linear accelerator using the gantry-mounted kilovoltage imager. This has the potential to increase confidence in the treatment , and the need for 2 treatment interruptions demonstrates the benefit of monitoring during irradiation. However , software improvements are needed to increase processing speed.