  An eleven weeks feeding trial was conducted to determine the effects of different levels of dietary soybean lecithin ( SBL) on growth performance , blood chemistry and immunity in juvenile stellate sturgeon ( Acipenser stellatus). Fish were fed seven isoproteic ( 44 % crude protein) and isolipidic ( 17 % crude fat) diets containing graded levels of SBL: 0 ( control) , 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 and 10 %. Results showed that dietary SBL supplementation significantly improved the final body<symptom> weight ( BW) and weight gain ( WG). Fish fed 6 % SBL showed the highest BW and WG values in comparison to fish fed the control diet ( P < 0.05) , whereas increasing SBL levels above 6 % had little practical benefit in terms of somatic growth performance. The inclusion of SBL in diets significantly improved the immune response as data from lysozyme , total Ig levels , alternative complement , phagocytic and bactericidal activities indicated ( P < 0.05). The broken-line regression analysis of immunological variable revealed that depending on the parameter considered , the optimal SBL levels in diets for stellate sturgeon juveniles varied. In particular , dietary SBL levels requirements in stellate sturgeon when considering the phagocytic activity rate were determined at 3.3 % , whereas 4.1-4.2 % were recommended when considering data from lysozyme , alternative complement and bactericidal activities. In contrast , the highest minimum dietary SBL content was estimated at 6.9 % when data from total Ig levels were considered. These results indicated that dietary PLs are required for boosting innate immunity in stellate sturgeon , although their minimal level changed depending on the immunological parameter considered. Therefore , we assume that SBL levels comprised between 3.3 and 6.9 % may be used as a prophylactic measure to improve the health status in stellate sturgeon. Red blood cell count , hemoglobin and hematocrit levels increased with increasing dietary SBL levels , especially in those sturgeons fed the diet with 6 % SBL ( P < 0.05). In addition , white blood cell counts significantly increased as dietary SBL levels increased from 4 to 8 % in comparison to the control group. Blood biochemistry was also affected by different dietary SBL levels. In particular , significantly higher levels of glucose , cholesterol , HDL and triglycerides were detected in fish fed > 6 % , > 4 % , > 2 % and 2 % SBL , respectively ( P < 0.05). Based on somatic growth parameters , blood chemistry and systemic immunity parameters , diets containing ca. 6 % SBL are recommended for juvenile stellate sturgeon.