  Epidemiology , etiology and treatment of patients with psychosis and co-morbid substance use disorder Abstract. More than 25 years ago , when the research on the efficacy of treatments for patients with a comorbidity of psychosis and substance use disorder has been systematically started , some authors described the treatment of these patients as a `` mission impossible ''. Approximately half of all individuals with schizophrenia develop substance use disorders in the course of their life; about one third of them a comorbid alcohol use disorder and about one quarter a comorbid substance use disorder with other addictive substances. There is no universally valid aetiology model to explain the relationship between psychosis and addiction. Contrary to expectations , the self-medication model was not empirically confirmed , while the psychological affect regulation model , the vulnerability-stress model of a specific sensitivity to addictive substances given a predisposition of psychosis , or the neurobiological common factor model of a dysfunction of dopamine regulation in the mesocorticolimbic reward system that predispose to primary substance use disorder found some empirical support. Research on the psychosocial-psychotherapeutic and pharmacological treatment of patients with psychosis and addiction are so heterogeneous in terms of characteristics of patients , disorders , treatments , settings and outcomes that hardly two comparable studies can be found. Thus , it is hardly possible to make scientifically based statements on the efficacy and effectiveness of therapies. Integrative treatment programs are promising , which combine psycho- and pharmacotherapeutic interventions for the treatment of psychotic and substance use disorders in a coherent manner and which can be flexibly adapted to the individual patient 's needs. Such treatments are carried out at the same time , in the same setting and by the same treatment providers and practioners. Successful integrative treatment programs usually include motivational interventions , cognitive-behavioral interventions specific to schizophrenia and addiction , interventions that may reduce the substance use such as relapse prevention , contingency management and/ or family interventions. These interventions are best combined with second-generation antipsychotics , if necessary with medication to reduce substance use. Although no `` mission impossible '' treating patients with psychosis and addiction remains a complex challenge for research and practice.