  Several studies suggest that self-criticism and self-reassurance operate through different mechanisms and might interact with each other. This study examined the hypothesis that self-reassurance serves as a buffer between self-criticism and depressive symptoms in a way that self-esteem , which is rooted in a different motivational system , may not. We hypothesized that self-criticism would be correlated with high levels of depressive symptoms , but that this association would be weaker at higher levels of self-reassurance abilities. We also hypothesized that self-esteem , a self-relating process based on feeling able and competent to achieve life goals , would not buffer the relationship between self-criticism and depression<symptom> Self-criticism , self-reassurance , depressive symptoms , and self-esteem were assessed in a sample of 419 participants ( 66 % females; M At higher levels of self-reassurance , the relationship between self-criticism and depressive symptoms became non-significant , supporting the buffering hypothesis of self-reassurance. Despite the high correlation between self-esteem and self-reassurance , self-esteem did not moderate the relationship between self-criticism and depressive symptoms. Results support the growing evidence that not all positive self-relating processes exert the same protective function against psychopathological consequences of self-criticism. Implications for psychotherapy and the validity of using compassion-focused interventions with clients with self-critical issues are discussed. Self-reassurance and self-criticism are distinct processes and they should not be considered positive and negative variations of a single dimension Different types of positive self-relating do not show the same correlation with depressive symptoms. The ability to be self-reassuring protects against the psychopathological correlates of self-criticism while having high self-esteem does not. Compassion-focused interventions are promising avenues to help clients counteract the negative impact of self-criticism on mood.