  The 2015 American Thyroid Association guidelines recognize active surveillance as an alternative to immediate surgery in patients with papillary microcarcinomas ( PMCs). As a way to incorporate active surveillance as one of the management options for patients with PMCs , we developed and tested a tool to support conversations between clinicians and patients with PMCs considering treatment options. Thyroid Cancer Treatment Choice was developed using an iterative process based on the principles of interaction , design , and participatory action research. To evaluate the impact of the tool on treatment choice , a prospective study was conducted in two thyroid cancer clinics in Seongnam-si and Seoul , South Korea. Both clinics had the expertise to offer active surveillance as well as immediate surgery. One clinic was trained in the use of the conversation aid , while the other clinic continued to care for patients without access to the conversation aid. Between May 2016 and April 2017 , 278 patients , mostly women ( n = 220 , 79 %) , were included in the study; 152 ( 53 %) received care at the clinic using the conversation aid. Age , sex , and mean ( ± SD) tumor size ( 6.6 ± 1.6 mm and 6.5 ± 1.9 mm) distributions were similar across clinics. Overall , 233 ( 84 %) patients opted for active surveillance and 53 ( 16 %) for thyroid surgery. Patients in the conversation aid group were more likely to choose active surveillance than the patients seen in the usual care clinic ( relative risk = 1.16 ( confidence interval 1.04-1.29)). Of all patients opting for active surveillance , more patients in the conversation aid group had thyroid cancer nodules<symptom> > 5 mm than in the usual care group ( 81 % vs. 67 %; p = 0.013). Thyroid Cancer Treatment Choice is an evidence-based tool that supports the presentation of treatment options for PMCs. Pilot testing suggests that this conversation tool increases acceptance of active surveillance , suggesting that this option is an acceptable and preferable alternative for informed patients. Further studies are warranted to confirm this finding.