  Diffuse axonal injury ( DAI) is known to be associated with poor outcome. DAI often associates with other intracranial injuries but their distinct features have not been established. In this retrospective cohort study , we compared clinical outcomes between pure and non-pure DAI patients. Total of 1047 traumatic brain injury ( TBI) patients visited our institute between 2011 and 2017. Age ranged between 15-85 years old and Glasgow coma<symptom> scale ( GCS) score less than 13 were included. DAI was diagnosed in 45 patients using CT and MRI and their clinical features and outcomes were compared depending on their associated cranial injury; 20 patients without evidence of associated injury ( Pure DAI group) and other 25 patients with associated injury ( Non-pure DAI group). DAI stage was adopted using Gentry , L.R. Glasgow outcome scale ( GOS) was measured at least 6 months after trauma to evaluate their functional outcome. The mean age and follow-up period were 45.36 years and 15.09 months , respectively. There were no significant differences between pure and non-pure DAI groups regarding demographic data and clinical findings on their admission. Logistic regression model was used to examine the association between GOS and clinical factors. In this analysis , pure DAI was no significantly different to non-pure DAI ( p = 0.607). However , DAI Stage , transfusion , and hypotension<symptom> on admission were strongly related to poor outcome. Stage III showed sevenfold higher risk when compared to Stage I ( p = 0.010). The risk was also high when Stage III was compare to Stage I and II ( p = 0.002). Interestingly , no significant difference was observed between Stage I and II ( p = 0.847). Unfavorable outcome was observed in 14 patients ( 31.11 %) which was lower than we expected. Interestingly , non-pure DAI was no worse than pure DAI on their functional outcome. However , DAI Stage III was independently associated with poor outcome when compared to Stage I or I and II. Finally , we concluded that Stage II is clinically more related to Stage I , rather than Stage III.