  Esophageal cancer and its treatment can cause serious morbidity/toxicity. These effects on health-related quality of life ( HRQOL) can be measured using disease-specific scales such as FACT-E , generic scales such as EQ-5D-3L , or through symptoms. In a two-year cross-sectional study , we compared HRQOL across esophageal cancer patients treated in an ambulatory clinic and across multiple disease states , among patients with all stages of esophageal cancer. Consenting patients completed FACT-E , EQ-5D , a visual analog scale , and patient reported ( PR)- ECOG. Symptom complexes were constructed from FACT-E domains. Responses were categorized by disease state: pre- , during , and post-treatment , surveillance , progression , and palliative chemotherapy. Spearman correlation and multivariable linear regression characterized these associations. In total , 199 patients completed 317 questionnaires. Mean FACT-E and subscale scores dropped from baseline through treatment and recovered during post-treatment surveillance ( P < 0.001); EQ-5D health utility scores ( HUS) displayed a similar pattern but with smaller differences ( P = 0.07) , and with evidence of ceiling effect. Among patients with stage II/III esophageal cancer , mean EQ-5D HUS varied across disease states ( P < 0.001) , along with FACT-E and subscales ( P < 0.001). Among patients with advanced disease , there was no significant difference between baseline and on-treatment total scores , but improved esophageal cancer-specific scales were noted ( P = 0.003). Strong correlation was observed between EQ-5D and FACT-E ( R = 0.73) , along with physical and functional subscales. In addition , the association between FACT-E and EQ-5D HUS was maintained in a multivariable model ( P < 0.001). We interpret these results to suggest that in a real-world clinic setting , FACT-E , EQ-5D HUS , and symptoms were strongly correlated. Most HRQOL and symptom parameters suggested that patients had worse HRQOL and symptoms during curative therapy , but recovered well afterwards. In contrast , palliative chemotherapy had a neutral to positive impact on HRQOL/symptoms when compared to their baseline pre-treatment state.