  Feeding fat to lactating dairy cows may reduce methane production. Relative to cellulose , fermentation of hemicellulose is believed to result in less methane; however , these factors have not been studied simultaneously. Eight multiparous , lactating Jersey cows averaging ( ± SD) 98 ± 30.8 d in milk and body<symptom> weight of 439.3 ± 56.7 kg were used in a twice-replicated 4 × 4 Latin square to determine the effects of fat and hemicellulose on energy utilization and methane production using a headbox-type indirect calorimetry method. To manipulate the concentration of fat , porcine tallow was included at either 0 or 2 % of the diet dry matter. The concentration of hemicellulose was adjusted by manipulating the inclusion rate of corn silage , alfalfa hay , and soybean hulls resulting in either 11.3 or 12.7 % hemicellulose ( dry matter basis). The resulting factorial arrangement of treatments were low fat low hemicellulose ( LFLH) , low fat high hemicellulose ( LFHH) , high fat low hemicellulose ( HFLH) , and high fat high hemicellulose ( HFHH). Neither fat nor hemicellulose affected dry matter intake , averaging 16.2 ± 1.18 kg/d across treatments. Likewise , treatments did not affect milk<symptom> production<symptom> , averaging 23.0 ± 1.72 kg/d , or energy-corrected milk , averaging 30.1 ± 2.41 kg/d. The inclusion of fat tended to reduce methane produced per kilogram of dry matter intake from 24.9 to 23.1 ± 1.59 L/kg , whereas hemicellulose had no effect. Increasing hemicellulose increased neutral detergent fiber ( NDF) digestibility from 43.0 to 51.1 ± 2.35 %. Similarly , increasing hemicellulose concentration increased total intake of digestible NDF from 6.62 to 8.42 ± 0.89 kg/d , whereas fat had no effect. Methane per unit of digested NDF tended to decrease from 64.8 to 49.2 ± 9.60 L/kg with increasing hemicellulose , whereas fat had no effect. An interaction between hemicellulose and fat content on net energy balance<symptom> ( milk plus tissue energy) was observed. Specifically , increasing hemicellulose in low-fat diets tended to increase net energy balance<symptom> , but this was not observed in high-fat diets. These results confirm that methane production may be reduced with the inclusion of fat , whereas energy utilization of lactating dairy cows is improved by increasing hemicellulose in low-fat diets.