  The active form of the small GTPase RAS binds to downstream effectors to promote cell growth and proliferation. RAS signal enhancement contributes to tumorigenesis , invasion , and metastasis in various different cancers. HRAS proto-oncogene GTPase ( HRAS) , one of the RAS isoforms , was the first human oncogene for which mutations were reported in T24 bladder cancer ( BC) cells in 1982 , and HRAS mutation or upregulation has been reported in several cancers. According to data from The Cancer Genome Atlas , HRAS expression was significantly upregulated in clinical BC samples compared to healthy samples ( P = 0.0024). HRAS expression was also significantly upregulated in BC with HRAS mutation compared to patients without HRAS mutation ( P < 0.0001). The tumor suppressive effect of salirasib , a RAS inhibitor , has been reported in several cancer types , but only at relatively high concentrations. As such , RAS inhibitors have not been used for clinical applications. The aim of the current study was to investigate the therapeutic potential of targeting HRAS using salirasib and small interfering RNA ( siRNA) and to characterize the mechanism by which HRAS functions using recently developed quantitative in vitro proteome-assisted multiple reaction monitoring for protein absolute quantification ( iMPAQT) , in BC cells. iMPAQT allows measurement of the absolute abundance of any human protein with the high quantitative accuracy. Salirasib and siRNA targeting of HRAS inhibited cell proliferation , migration and invasion in HRAS wild type and HRAS-mutated cell lines. Proteomic analyses revealed that several metabolic pathways , including the oxidative phosphorylation pathway and glycolysis , were significantly downregulated in salirasib-treated BC cells. However , the expression levels of hexokinase 2 , phosphoglycerate kinase 1 , pyruvate kinase , muscle ( PKM) 1 , PKM2 and lactate dehydrogenase A , which are downstream of RAS and target genes of hypoxia inducible factor-1α , were not notably downregulated , which may explain the high concentration of salirasib required to inhibit cell viability. These findings provide insight into the mechanisms of salirasib , and suggest the need for novel therapeutic strategies to treat cancers such as BC.