  The purpose of our study was a comparative analysis of the effect of dentures from various materials on the immunological and redox-dependent homeostasis of the oral cavity. We studied 60 patients with removable dentures made based on plastics Prothyl Hot , Vertex BasiQ 20 ( differing by polymerization regime) and elastic thermoplastic polymer Perflex Flexi Nylon. The control group consisted of 15 volunteers with a practically healthy oral cavity , who did not use dentures. Saliva collected on an empty stomach in a glass tube without the use of a stimulator before the establishment of a denture and 3 days and 1 month after. The content of the protein P-53 in saliva determined by immunoenzymatic assay with use of `` Cusabio '' reagent. The cytokines ( IL1β , IL10) content in saliva was determined immunoenzymatic assay. To determine the redox balance<symptom> in the saliva of patients , the lipoperoxydradicals content ( LOO.) content ( by EPR method , using the spin-labeled α-phenyl-tertbutylnitron ( PBN) ( SIGMA)) and the activity of antioxidant enzymes ( catalase and SOD) ( by spectrophotometry) studied. Statistical processing of the results was carried out using the software package SPSS ( version 10.0). Results of analysis show that defects associated with a lack of teeth do not affect the immune and oxidative balance<symptom> of the oral cavity , but contribute to the development of destructive changes in the oral cavity 's soft tissues , which manifested by an increase in the content of the proapoptotic protein P-53 in the saliva. After establishment of a denture , the intensity of apoptosis in the oral cavity tissues reduced. Establishment of a denture induced development of an inflammatory reaction during the first days , the intensity of which gradually decreased and completely disappeared at the end of the first month of the observation ( manifested by the normalization of the parameters of the immune balance<symptom> and antioxidant system). Minimal traumatic effects observed during establishment of a denture made based on Perflex Flexi Nylon.