  Four-dimensional cone beam computed tomography ( 4DCBCT) facilitates verification of lung tumor motion before each treatment fraction and enables accurate patient setup in lung stereotactic ablative body radiation therapy. This work aims to quantify the real-time motion represented in 4DCBCT , depending on the reconstruction algorithm and the respiratory signal utilized for reconstruction. Eight lung cancer patients were implanted with electromagnetic Calypso beacons in airways close to the tumor , enabling real-time motion measurements. 4DCBCT scans were reconstructed from projections for treatment setup CBCT for 1 to 2 fractions of 8 patients with the Feldkamp-Davis-Kress ( FDK) algorithm or the prior image constrained compressed sensing ( PICCS) method and internal real-time Calypso beacon trajectories or an external respiratory signal ( bellows belt). The real-time beacon centroid ( `` target '') motion was compared with beacon centroid positions segmented in the 4DCBCT reconstructions. We tested the hypotheses that ( 1) the actual target motion was accurately represented in the reconstructions and ( 2) the reconstruction/respiratory signal combinations performed similarly in the representation of the real-time motion. On average the target motion was significantly underrepresented and exceeded the 4DCBCT motion for 48 % , 25 % , and 40 % of the time in the left-right ( LR) , superior-inferior ( SI) , and anterior-posterior ( AP) directions , respectively. The average underrepresentation for the LR , SI , and AP direction was 1.7 mm , 4.2 mm , and 2.5 mm , respectively. No difference could be shown between the reconstruction algorithms or respiratory signals in LR direction ( FDK vs PICCS: P = .47 , Calypso vs bellows: P = .19) , SI direction ( FDK vs PICCS: P = .49 , Calypso vs bellows: P = .22) , and AP direction ( FDK vs PICCS: P = .62 , Calypso vs bellows: P = .34). The 4DCBCT scans all underrepresented the real-time target motion. The selection of the reconstruction algorithm and respiratory signal for the 4DCBCT reconstruction does not have an impact on the reconstructed motion range.