  To understand the current status of liquid beverage consumption of adult residents in 15 provinces and cities in China , and discuss relevant factors that may affect the consumption of liquid beverage of adult residents , and provide data support to guide the rational consumption of liquid beverage. Using data from China Nutritional Transition Cohort Survey in 2015 on the subjects aged 18 to 59 years old in 15 provinces and cities in China with complete 24-hour-dietary for 3 days and food consumption frequency method , chi-square was used to analyze liquid beverage consumption rate , nonparametric test was used to analyze beverage consumption intake levels of different gender , age , education degree , urban and rural areas , income , region. The factors affecting the consumption of liquid beverage were analyzed by Logistic regression model. The result of complete 24-hour-dietary for 3 days showed that the consumption rate of liquid beverage was 2. 8 % and the 99 th consumption of liquid beverage was 93. 3 g/d for adult residents in 15 provinces and cities in 2015. The consumption rate and P99 intake of liquid beverage increased gradually with the increase of educational degree and income; the city was higher than the rural areas; the eastern was higher than the central and west region. Logistic analysis showed that the distribution of education , urban and rural areas and region were the influencing factors of whether adult residents drank liquid beverage. The 50 th consumption of liquid beverage in the consumer group was 70. 0 g/d. Among them , 18-44 years old youth group was higher than 45-59 years old middle age group; junior middle school education was highest lowest; the rural was higher than the city; the central was higher than west<disease> and east region. The result of food consumption frequency showed that 25. 8 % of adults were reported consumed liquid beverage in 2015. The main types of beverages were fruit juice and fruit juice beverages , carbonated drinks , accounting for 37. 5 % and 21. 9 % of the consumption frequency of the consumption population , respectively. The consumption condition of liquid beverage was influenced by education degree , urban and rural areas , income and region mainly. Among them , high educated , high-income , developed regions ( urban and eastern) were more likely to consume liquid beverages and consumed the more average consumption of liquid beverage. On the contrary , the average consumption of liquid beverage in the consumer group among the highly educated and developed regions ( urban and Eastern) were the lowest. We should strengthen health education for adult residents in middle or low educational backgrounds and underdeveloped areas to guide residents to consume liquid beverage especially sugary beverages rationally.