  The putative functional variant -265 T > C ( rs5082) within the APOA2 promoter has shown consistent interactions with saturated fatty acid ( SFA) intake to influence the risk of obesity. The aim of this study was to implement an integrative approach to characterize the molecular basis of this interaction. We conducted an epigenome-wide scan on 80 participants carrying either the rs5082 CC or TT genotypes and consuming either a low-SFA ( < 22 g/d) or high-SFA diet ( ≥ 22 g/d) , matched for age , sex , BMI , and diabetes status in the Boston Puerto Rican Health Study ( BPRHS). We then validated the findings in selected participants in the Genetics of Lipid Lowering Drugs and Diet Network ( GOLDN) Study ( n = 379) and the Framingham Heart Study ( FHS) ( n = 243). Transcription and metabolomics analyses were conducted to determine the relation between epigenetic status , APOA2 mRNA expression , and blood metabolites. In the BPRHS , we identified methylation site cg04436964 as exhibiting significant differences between CC and TT participants consuming a high-SFA diet , but not among those consuming low-SFA. Similar results were observed in the GOLDN Study and the FHS. Additionally , in the FHS , cg04436964 methylation was negatively correlated with APOA2 expression in the blood of participants consuming a high-SFA diet. Furthermore , when consuming a high-SFA diet , CC carriers had lower APOA2 expression than those with the TT genotype. Lastly , metabolomic analysis identified 4 pathways as overrepresented by metabolite differences between CC and TT genotypes with high-SFA intake , including tryptophan and branched-chain amino acid ( BCAA) pathways. Interestingly , these pathways were linked to rs5082-specific cg04436964 methylation differences in high-SFA consumers. The epigenetic status of the APOA2 regulatory region is associated with SFA intake and APOA2 -265 T > C genotype , promoting an APOA2 expression difference between APOA2 genotypes on a high-SFA diet , and modulating BCAA and tryptophan metabolic pathways. These findings identify potential mechanisms by which this highly reproducible gene-diet interaction influences obesity risk , and contribute new insights to ongoing investigations of the relation between SFA and human health. This study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT03452787.