  Research were carried out to determine the antimicrobial resistance and mechanism of Salmonella isolates recovered from retail chicken carcasses in Beijing in summer , 2013. Broth microdilution method were used for antimicrobial susceptibility testing to obtain the minimal inhibitory concentration ( MICs) against 11 antimicrobial compounds which belongs to 8 categories and 166 Salmonella<pathogen> strains isolated from 33 retail chicken carcasses in Beijing in summer , 2013 were tested. Cephalosporin resistant isolates were evaluated by ESBLs confirmation test , also resistance mechanism analysis was subjected to ciprofloxacin and cefotaxime co-resistant Salmonella<pathogen> isolates. 94. 6 % isolates were resistant to at least one antimicrobial and 58. 4 % were identified as multi-drug resistant strains. The highest rate of resistance was 92. 2 % against nalidixic acid , followed by ampicillin ( 48. 8 %) , ampicillin-sulbactam ( 44. 0 %) , tetracycline ( 44. 0 %). There were 27 antimicrobial resistance spectrums with NAL and NAL-AMP-SAM being dominant spectrums. Totally , 41 ESBLs positive strains which contained 38 ciprofloxacin resistant isolates were recovered from 47 cefotaxime resistant strains. Detection of quinolones and β-lactams resistant genes for 38 ciprofloxacin and cefotaxime co-resistant and ESBLs positive Salmonella<pathogen> isolates indicate that QRDRs/PMQR/ESBLs antimicrobial resistance mechanism existed in these strains. Point mutations in gyrA and parC were identified in 37 isolates , and 38 isolates tested all contained PMQR genes such as qnrB 、 qnrS 、 oqxAB and aac ( 6 ')- Ib-cr genes with a few mutations , while CTX-M ( n = 35) , TEM ( n = 20) , OXA ( n = 36) type β-lactamases were detected. High level antimicrobial resistance and complicated mechanism existed among Salmonella recovered from retail chicken carcasses in Beijing in summer , 2013. In order to protect public health , tendency and further mechanism on antimicrobial resistance and transmissibility should be described deeply by on-going surveillance and research , while rational drug use regulatory managements should be carried out in the overall process of chicken production , slaughtering , transportation and marketing , as well as clinical treatment for human Salmonella<pathogen> infections.