  Obligate intracellular apicomplexan parasites are considered as deficient in cholesterol biosynthesis and scavenge cholesterol from their host cell in a parasite-specific manner. Compared to fast proliferating apicomplexan species producing low numbers of merozoites per host cell , ( e. g. Toxoplasma<pathogen> gondii<pathogen> , the macromeront-forming protozoa Eimeria bovis<pathogen> is in extraordinary need for cholesterol for offspring production ( ≥ 170,000 merozoites I/macromeront). Interestingly , optimized in vitro E. bovis<pathogen> merozoite I production occurs under low foetal calf serum ( FCS , 1.2 %) supplementation. To analyze the impact of extensive E. bovis<pathogen> proliferation on host cellular sterol metabolism we here compared the sterol profiles of E. bovis-infected primary endothelial host cells grown under optimized ( 1.2 % FCS) and non-optimized ( 10 % FCS) cell culture conditions. Therefore , several sterols indicating endogenous de novo cholesterol synthesis , cholesterol conversion and sterol uptake ( phytosterols) were analyzed via GC-MS-based approaches. Overall , significantly enhanced levels of phytosterols were detected in both FCS conditions indicating infection-triggered sterol uptake from extracellular sources as a major pathway of sterol acquisition. Interestingly , a simultaneous induction of endogenous cholesterol synthesis based on increased levels of distinct cholesterol precursors was only observed in case of optimized parasite proliferation indicating a parasite proliferation-dependent effect. Considering side-chain oxysterols , 25 hydroxycholesterol levels were selectively found increased in E. bovis-infected host cells , while 24 hydroxycholesterol and 27 hydroxycholesterol contents were not significantly altered by infection. Exogenous treatments with 25 hydroxycholesterol , 27 hydroxycholesterol , and 7 ketocholesterol revealed significant adverse effects on E. bovis<pathogen> intracellular development. Thus , the number and size of developing macromeronts and merozoite I production was significantly reduced indicating that these oxysterols bear direct or indirect antiparasitic properties. Overall , the current data indicate parasite-driven changes in the host cellular sterol profile reflecting the huge demand of E. bovis<pathogen> for cholesterol during macromeront formation and its versatility in the acquisition of cholesterol sources.