  Aquaporins ( AQPs) are small integral membrane proteins that are essential for water transport across membranes<symptom>. AQP9 , one of the 13 mammalian AQPs ( including AQP0 to 12) , has been reported to be highly expressed in hydrarthrosis and synovitis<symptom> patients. Given that several studies have identified signal transduction as an additional function of AQPs , it is hypothesized that AQP9 may modulate inflammatory signal transduction in chondrocytes. Therefore , the present study used a model of interleukin ( IL) 1β‑induced inflammation<symptom> to determine the mechanisms associated with AQP9 functions in chondrocytes. Osteoarthritis ( OA) and normal cartilage samples were subjected to immunohistological analysis. In addition , matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP) 3 , MMP13 and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 5 ( ADAMTS‑5) mRNA and protein analysis was conducted in normal human articular chondrocytes from the knee ( NHAC‑Kn) stimulated with IL‑1β by reverse transcription‑polymerase chain reaction ( RT‑qPCR) and western blotting , respectively. AQP9 knockdown was also performed by transfection of AQP9‑specific small interfering RNA using Lipofectamine. AQP1 , 3 , 7 , 9 and 11 mRNA expression levels were detected in OA human chondrocytes and in IL‑1β‑treated normal human chondrocytes. The levels of AQP9 , MMP‑3 , MMP‑13 and ADAMTS‑5 mRNA were increased by treatment with 10 ng/ml IL‑1β in a time‑dependent manner , while knockdown of AQP9 expression significantly decreased the mRNA levels of the MMP3 , MMP13 and ADAMTS‑5 genes , as well as the phosphorylation of IκB kinase ( IKK). Treatment with a specific IKK inhibitor also significantly decreased the expression levels of MMP‑3 , MMP‑13 and ADAMTS‑5 in response to IL‑1β stimulation. Furthermore , immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that AQP9 and inflammatory markers were highly expressed in OA cartilage. In addition , the downregulation of AQP9 in cultured chondrocytes decreased the catabolic gene expression in response to IL‑1β stimulation through nuclear factor‑κB signaling. Therefore , AQP9 may be a promising target for the treatment of OA.