  Keratin proteins derived from human hair are known to contain a large number of cysteine residues. In hydrogels composed of oxidatively extracted keratin ( keratose) , sulfonic acid on the cysteine residues prevents disulfide crosslinking. Reductively extracted keratin ( kerateine) has thiol groups on cysteine residues that can form disulfide crosslinks. The rates of keratin hydrogel erosion and , in some cases , drug release can be tuned by manipulating disulfide crosslinking levels via the keratose: kerateine ( KOS: KTN) ratio. To investigate the use of these hydrogel mixtures as carriers for growth factors in tissue engineering applications , we fabricated 15 % ( w/v) hydrogels with KOS: KTN ratios of 100:0 , 70:30 , 50:50 , 30:70 , and 0:100 with and without recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 2 ( rhBMP-2). We compared the keratin rhBMP-2 carriers to the clinical system of resorbable collagen sponges , which are known to elicit problems including edema<symptom> , inflammation<symptom> and ectopic bone growth. In vitro , hydrogels with increasing levels of keratose eroded more rapidly. However , there was little difference in amounts of rhBMP-2 released after 12 hours among the various keratin formulations. Collagen had similar total rhBMP-2 release , albeit with significantly greater release over the first 12 hours compared to all keratin formulations except kerateine ( 0:100). However , increasing levels of kerateine led to increasing release of bioactive rhBMP-2 based on stimulation of alkaline phosphatase activity in MC3T3-E1 cells by the hydrogel releasate. MicroCT analysis of heterotopic bone growth in a mouse model indicated that with rhBMP-2 , the 30:70 formulation led to significant increases in bone volume compared to keratose and collagen while the 50:50 formulation led to significant bone volume increases compared to all of the formulations except 30:70 KOS: KTN. Histological analysis of images from the heterotopic mouse model indicated differences in the quality and type of bone among the various carriers of rhBMP-2. 70:30 KOS: KTN + rhBMP-2 elicited greater amounts of cortical bone while 30:70 resulted in greater amounts of marrow , total bone , and residual material. The results indicate that in addition to the rate of rhBMP-2 release , the carrier itself can have important effects on bone volume , type , distribution , and quality.