  The two distinct dose computation paradigms of Boltzmann equation solvers and Monte Carlo simulation both promise in principle maximum accuracy. In practice , clinically acceptable calculation times demand approximations and numerical short-cuts on one hand , and modeling the beam characteristics of a real linear accelerator to the required accuracy on the other. A thorough benchmark of both algorithm types therefore needs to start with beam modeling , and needs to include a number of clinically challenging treatment plans. The Acuros XB ( v 13.7 , Varian Medical Systems) and SciMoCa ( v 1.0 , Scientific RT) algorithms were commissioned for the same Varian Clinac accelerator for beam qualities 6 and 15 MV. Beam models were established with water phantom measurements and MLC calibration protocols. In total , 25 patients of five case classes ( lung/three-dimensional ( 3D) conformal , lung/IMRT , head and neck/VMAT , cervix/IMRT , and rectum/VMAT) were randomly selected from the clinical database and computed with both algorithms. Statistics of 3D gamma analysis for various dose/distance-to-agreement ( DTA) criteria and differences in selected DVH parameters were analyzed. The percentage of points fulfilling a gamma evaluation was scored as the gamma agreement index ( GAI) , denoted as G ( ΔD , DTA). G ( 3,3) , G ( 2,2) , and G ( 1,1) were evaluated for the full body , PTV , and selected organs at risk ( OARs). For all patients , G ( 3,3) ≥ 99.9 % and G ( 2,2) > 97 % for the body. G ( 1,1) varied among the patients. However , for all patients , G ( 1,1) > 70 % and G ( 1,1) > 80 % for 68 % of the patients. For each patient , the mean dose deviation was ΔD < 1 % for the body , PTV , and all evaluated OARs , respectively. In dense bone and at off-axis distance > 10 cm , the Acuros algorithm yielded slightly higher doses. In the first layer of voxels of the patient surface , the calculated doses deviated between the algorithms. However , at the second voxel , good agreement was observed. The differences in D ( 98 % PTV) were < 1.9 % between the two algorithms and for 76 % of the patients , deviations were below 1 %. Overall , an outstanding agreement was found between the Boltzmann equation solver and Monte Carlo. High-accuracy dose computation algorithms have matured to a level that their differences are below common experimental detection thresholds for clinical treatment plans. Aside from residual differences which could be traced back to implementation details and fundamental cross-section data , both algorithms arrive at identical dose distributions.