  The aim of the study was to test if the addition of CGF to the Masquelet technique contributes to the quality of the membrane formed surrounding the polymethylmethacrylate ( PMMA) , in terms of inflammation<symptom> , proliferation and vasculazition in the Masquelet technique in the early and late phases in a rabbit model. A critical bone defect of 15 mm was created in radius diaphysis , leaving 3 cm of intact bone to the joint. To mimic the Masquelet technique and to increase stability , a 6-hole 1.5 mm plate with two screws was applied , although it was initialy stable because of the inherently fixed ulna and radius both proximally and distally in the rabbits. Group 1 and Group 3 , were soleley treated with the Masquelet technique as control groups , and were sacrificed at 3 and 6 weeks , respectively. Group 2 and Group 4 , were treated with the Masquelet technique + CGF prepared from the rabbit blood groups , and were sacrificed at 3 and 6 weeks , respectively. The groups were compared histopathologically and immunohistochemically , in respect of the means of thickness of the membrane and ratio of elastic fibers , membrane vascularization ( CD31) , inflammation<symptom> ( MAC387) , proliferation ( Ki67) , and presence of stem cells ( STRO-1). Thickness of the membrane and CD31 values were significantly higher in Group 4 than Group 3 ( p = 0.004 for both). MAC387 was statistically significantly higher in Group 2 compared to Group 1 and Group 4 compared to Group 3 ( p = 0.04 for both). Ki67 was significantly higher in Group 2 compared to Group 1 and Group 4 compared to Group 3 ( p = 0.05 and p = 0.006 , respectively). Proliferation in the membrane was statistically significantly higher in Group 2 compared to Group 1 ( p = 0.05). Likewise , the proliferation index of Group 4 was statistically significantly higher than Group 3 ( p = 0.06). STRO-1 was significantly higher in Group 2 compared to Group 1 ( p = 0036). The addition of CGF to the Masquelet technique contributes to the quality of the membrane formed , in respect of inducing inflammation<symptom> and proliferation , maintaining vascularization on large diaphyseal bone defects , and increasing the number of stem cells.