  Human periodontal ligament mesenchymal stem cells ( hPDLMSCs) are reported to be responsible for homeostasis and regeneration of periodontal tissue. Although hPDLMSCs are commonly cultured in monolayers , monolayer cultures have been reported as inferior to 3-dimensional cultures such as spheroids , which are spherical clusters of cells formed by self-assembly. The aim of this study was to examine the osteogenic phenotype of spheroids of hPDLMSCs , compared with monolayer cultures of hPDLMSC , in vitro and in vivo. Spheroids were formed using microwell chips that were tagged with polyethylene glycol. Mesenchymal stem cell ( MSC) markers in hPDLMSC spheroids were examined by flow cytometer. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis was examined to measure the expressions of stemness markers and osteogenesis-related genes in monolayer and spheroid-cultured hPDLMSCs. Immunofluorescence analysis was performed to confirm protein expressions of stemness markers in PDLMSC spheroids. Nodule<disease> formation assay , alkaline phosphatase ( ALP) activity assay and transplantation assay in a mouse calvarial defect model were performed to confirm the osteogenic potential of hPDLMSC spheroids. To elucidate the mechanism of spheroid culture enhanced osteogenesis in hPDLMSCs with osteoinductive medium ( OIM) , a small interfering RNA ( siRNA) assay targeted with secreted frizzled-related protein 3 ( SFRP3) was examined. The levels of SFRP3 expression in monolayer and spheroid-cultured hPDLMSCs with OIM were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting analysis. ALP gene expression and ALP activity were examined in SFRP3-deficient hPDLMSC spheroids. The hPDLMSC spheroids expressed MSC markers , which were similar to hPDLMSCs grown in monolayer cultures. Intriguingly , the protein and mRNA expressions of transcription factors that regulate `` stemness '' were significantly increased in hPDLMSC spheroids , compared with hPDLMSCs in monolayer cultures. Nodule<disease> formation by hPDLMSCs was significantly increased in spheroid cultures grown with OIM , compared with monolayer-cultured hPDLMSCs. ALP activity and expression of osteogenesis-related genes were also significantly enhanced in hPDLMSC spheroids , compared with monolayer cultures. Treatment with hPDLMSC spheroids significantly enhanced new bone formation in a murine calvarial defect model , compared with hPDLMSCs in monolayer culture. Finally , to elucidate mechanisms by which spheroid culture enhances ALP activation in hPDLMSCs grown with OIM , an siRNA assay was used to manipulate expression of SFRP3 , a Wnt signaling antagonist. Knockdown of SFRP3 suppressed ALP gene expression in hPDLMSCs grown in OIM; further , it suppressed ALP activity in spheroid culture. These data suggest that the enhancement of osteogenic potential in hPDLMSC spheroids is regulated through SFRP3-mediated ALP activation. Spheroid cultures of hPDLMSCs may be a novel and useful tool in regenerative medicine.