  In an attempt to better represent the aetiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder ( FASD) and the associated psychological deficits , prenatal-ethanol exposure was followed by maternal separation in a rat model in order to account for the effects of early-life adversities in addition to in utero alcohol exposure. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 ( ERK1/2) and glycogen synthase kinase 3-β ( GSK3β) are converging points for many signalling cascades and have been implicated in models of FASD and models of early-life stress. Therefore , these kinases may also contribute to the behavioural changes observed after the combination of both developmental insults. In this study , ethanol-dams voluntarily consumed a 0.066 % saccharin-sweetened 10 % ethanol ( EtOH) solution for 10 days prior to pregnancy and throughout gestation while control-dams had ad libitumaccess to a 0.066 % saccharin ( sacc) solution. Whole litters were randomly assigned to undergo maternal separation ( MS) for 3 h/day from P2 to P14 while the remaining litters were left undisturbed ( nMS). This resulted in 4 experimental groups: control ( sacc + nMS) , MS ( sacc + MS) , EtOH ( EtOH + nMS) and EtOH + MS. Throughout development , EtOH-rats weighed less than control rats. However , subsequent maternal separation stress caused EtOH + MS-rats to weigh more than EtOH-rats. In adulthood both MS- and EtOH-rats were hyperactive but the combination produced activity levels similar to that of control rats. All treated animals ( MS- , EtOH- and EtOH + MS-rats) demonstrated a negative affective state shown by increased number and duration of 22 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations compared to control rats. Prenatal-ethanol exposure increased the P-GSK3β/ GSK3β ratio in the prefrontal cortex ( PFC) and maternal separation decreased the P-GSK3β/ GSK3β ratio in the dorsal hippocampus ( DH) of adult rats. However , maternal separation stress decreased the effect of prenatal-ethanol exposure on the P-ERK/ERK ratio in the PFC and DH and reduced prenatal-ethanol-induced hyperactivity. Therefore , indicating a significant interaction between prenatal-ethanol exposure and early-life stress on behaviour and the brain and may implicate P-ERK1/ 2 signalling in exploratory behaviour.