  In this paper , the molecular dynamics of a series of ester derivatives of ibuprofen ( IBU) , in which the hydrogen atom from the hydroxyl group was substituted by the methyl , isopropyl , hexyl , and benzyl moieties , has been investigated using Broadband dielectric ( BD) , Nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR) , and Raman spectroscopies. We found that except for benzyl IBU ( Ben-IBU) , an additional process ( slow mode , SM) appears in dielectric spectra in all examined compounds. It is worth noting that this relaxation process was observed for the first time in non-modified IBU ( a Debye relaxation). According to suggestions by Affouard and Correia ( J. Phys. Chem. B. 114 , 11397 ( 2010)) as well as further studies by Adrjanowicz et al. ( J. Chem. Phys. 139 , 111103 ( 2013)) on Met-IBU , it was attributed to synperiplanar-antiperiplanar conformational changes within the molecule. Herein , we have shown that with an increasing molecular weight of the substituent , the relaxation times of the SM become longer and its activation energy significantly increases. Moreover , this new relaxation mode was found to be broader than a simple Debye relaxation in Iso-IBU and Hex-IBU. Additional complementary NMR studies indicated that either there is a significant slowdown of the rotation around the O = C-O-R moiety or this kind of movement is completely suppressed in the case of Ben-IBU. Therefore , the SM is not observed in the dielectric loss spectra of this compound. Finally , we carried out isothermal experiments on the samples which have a different thermal history. Interestingly , it turned out that the relaxation times of the structural processes are slightly shorter with respect to those obtained from temperature dependent measurements. This effect was the most prominent in the case of Hex-IBU , while for Ben-IBU , it was not observed at all. Additional time-dependent measurements revealed the ongoing equilibration manifested by the continuous shift of the structural process , until it finally reached its equilibrium position. Further Raman investigations showed that this effect may be related to the rotational/conformational equilibration of the long hexyl chains. Our results are the first ones demonstrating that the structural process is sensitive to the conformational equilibration occurring in the specific highly viscous systems.