  Diclofenac-DCF , one of the most widely prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug , is globally detected in environmental compartments. Due to its occurrence in freshwater and potential impact on aquatic organisms , it has been added to the watch list of chemicals in the EU Water Directive; consequently , research on the impact of DCF in model aquatic organisms has great regulatory implications towards ecosystem health. DCF is also detected in coastal waters at concentrations from ng/L to 1 μg/L , as well as in marine organisms , such as the mussel Mytilus. Increasing evidence indicates that environmental concentrations of DCF have multiple impacts in adult mussels. Moreover , in M. galloprovincialis , DCF has been shown to affect early embryo development. The developmental effects of DCF in mussels were further investigated. DFC ( 1 and 10 μg/L) was added at different times post-fertilization ( 30 min and 24 hpf) and the effects were compared in the 48 hpf embryotoxicity assay. Shell mineralization and morphology were investigated by polarized light microscopy , X-Ray Spectrometry-XRD and Scanning Electron Microscopy-SEM. Transcriptional profiles of 12 selected genes physiologically regulated across early embryo development were assessed at 24 and 48 hpf. DCF induced shell malformations , irrespectively of concentration and time of exposure. DCF phenotypes were characterized by convex hinges , undulated edges , fractured shells. However , no changes in biomineralization were observed. DCF affected gene transcription at both times pf , in particular at 1 μg/L. The most affected genes were those involved in early shell formation ( CS , CA , EP) and biotransformation ( ABCB , GST). The results confirm that Mytilus early development represents a significant target for environmental concentrations of DCF. These data underline how the standard embryotoxicity assay , in combination with a structural and transcriptomic approach , represents a powerful tool for evaluating the early impact of pharmaceuticals on mussel embryos , and identification of the possible underlying mechanisms of action.