  AimThe aim of this integrative review is to determine the effectiveness of integrated heart<symptom> failure<symptom> ( HF) care in terms of patient- , service- and resource-related outcomes , and to determine what model or characteristics of integrated care work best , for whom and in what contexts. Integration of health and social care services is a significant driver in the development of better and more cost-effective health and social care systems in Europe and developed countries. As high users of health and social care services , considerable attention has been paid to the care of people with long-term conditions. HF is a progressive , prevalent and disabling condition , requiring complex management involving multiple health and social care agencies. An integrative review was conducted according to a framework by Whittemore and Knafl ( 2005). A literature search was undertaken using the databases: Medline , CINAHL , Embase , PsychINFO and the Cochrane Library , using key words of ` heart<symptom> failure<symptom> ' OR ` cardiac failure ' AND ` integrated ' OR ` multidisciplinary ' OR ` interdisciplinary ' OR ` multiprofessional ' OR ` interprofessional ' OR ` collaborative care '. Application of the inclusion and exclusion criteria resulted in 17 articles being included in the review. Articles were screened and coded for methodological quality according to a two-point criteria. Data were extracted using a template and analysed thematically.FindingsIntegrated HF care results in enhanced quality of life ( QoL) , and improved symptom control and self-management. Reduced admission rates , reduced length of hospital stay , improved prescribing practices and better care co-ordination are also reported. There is more limited evidence for improved efficiency although overall costs may be reduced. Although findings are highly context dependent , key features of integrated HF models are: liaison between primary and secondary care services to facilitate planned discharge , early and medium term follow-up , multidisciplinary patient education and team working including shared professional education , and the development and implementation of comprehensive care pathways.