  There is little detailed phenotypic characterization of bilateral hippocampal sclerosis ( HS). We therefore conducted a multicenter review of people with pharmacoresistant epilepsy and bilateral HS to better determine their clinical characteristics. Databases from 11 EPIGEN centers were searched. For identified cases , clinicians reviewed the medical notes , imaging , and electroencephalographic ( EEG) , video-EEG , and neuropsychometric data. Data were irretrievably anonymized , and a single database was populated to capture all phenotypic information. These data were compared with phenotyped cases of unilateral HS from the same centers. In total , 96 patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy and bilateral HS were identified ( 43 female , 53 male; age range = 8-80 years). Twenty-five percent had experienced febrile convulsions<symptom> , and 27 % of patients had experienced status epilepticus. The mean number of previously tried antiepileptic drugs was 5.32 , and the average number of currently prescribed medications was 2.99; 44.8 % of patients had cognitive difficulties , and 47.9 % had psychiatric comorbidity; 35.4 % ( 34/96) of patients continued with long-term medical therapy alone , another 4 being seizure-free on medication. Sixteen patients proceeded to , or were awaiting , neurostimulation , and 11 underwent surgical resection. One patient was rendered seizure-free postresection , with an improvement in seizures<symptom> for 3 other cases. By comparison , of 201 patients with unilateral HS , a significantly higher number ( 44.3 %) had febrile convulsions<symptom> and only 11.4 % had experienced status epilepticus. Importantly , 41.8 % ( 84/201) of patients with unilateral HS had focal aware seizures<symptom> , whereas such seizures<symptom> were less frequently observed in people with bilateral HS , and were never observed exclusively ( P = .002; Fisher 's exact test). The current work describes the phenotypic spectrum of people with pharmacoresistant epilepsy and bilateral HS , highlights salient clinical differences from patients with unilateral HS , and provides a large platform from which to develop further studies , both epidemiological and genomic , to better understand etiopathogenesis and optimal treatment regimes in this condition.