  Ultraviolet ( UV) irradiation is an emerging strategy for controlling the formation of undesired biofilms in water desalination facilities using reverse osmosis ( RO). However , most studies examining these pretreatments are limited as they have been conducted on single-species cultures , while biofilms are composed of multiple-species communities. The goal of this study was to investigate the effect of UV-C irradiation on a model community composed of six environmental isolates from a marine biofilm formed in RO seawater desalination plant. There was a high variance in the susceptibility of the single-isolate cultures to UV-C , from no response ( isolate Eryth23) to complete inactivation ( isolate Vib3). The most active wavelength was around 260 nm , resulting in a loss of viability of single-isolate cultures and loss of vitality of the mixed-isolate cultures. With respect to biofilm formation , the activity of this wavelength was completely different compared to its activity on planktonic suspension. Irradiation with 260 nm did not inhibit the total biofilm formation by the six-isolate culture; moreover , isolates such as the resistant Eryth23 or the susceptible Pseudoalt17 , even gained abundance in the mixed isolate biofilm. The only decrease in total biofilm was obtained from irradiation at 280 nm , which was less active against the planktonic culture. These results indicate that the complexity of the biofilm-forming microbial community may contribute to its resistance to UV-C irradiation. This study examined the resistance of a multiple-isolate native marine culture to UV-C irradiation , in terms of viability , vitality and the ability to form biofilm. Results of this study showed that even though most of the cells were inactivated both in single-isolate and in multiple-isolate cultures , still the multiple-isolate cultures manages to form biofilms , surprisingly with higher biomass than without irradiation. The significance of the study is in its conclusion that studies on UV-C irradiation of biofilm-forming model micro-organisms are not always applicable to natural multiple-species communities.