  Oral pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP) prevents HIV<pathogen> infection in men who have sex with men ( MSM); however , adherence is an ongoing concern. Long-acting injectable PrEP is being tested in phase 3 trials and could address challenges associated with adherence. We examined the potential effectiveness of long-acting injectable PrEP compared with oral PrEP in MSM. We used an agent-based model to simulate HIV<pathogen> transmission in a dynamic network of 11 245 MSM in Atlanta , GA , USA. We used raw data from studies in macaque models and pharmacokinetic data from safety trials to estimate the time-varying efficacy of long-acting injectable PrEP. The effect of long-acting injectable PrEP on the cumulative number of new HIV<pathogen> infections over 10 years ( 2015-24) was compared with no PrEP and daily oral PrEP across a range of coverage levels. Sensitivity analyses were done with varying maximum efficacy and drug half-life values. In the absence of PrEP , the model predicted 2374 new HIV<pathogen> infections ( 95 % simulation interval ( SI) 2345-2412) between 2015 and 2024. The cumulative number of new HIV<pathogen> infections was reduced in all scenarios in which MSM received long-acting injectable PrEP compared with oral PrEP. At a coverage level of 35 % , compared with no PrEP , long-acting injectable PrEP led to a 44 % reduction in new HIV<pathogen> infections ( 1044 new infections averted ( 95 % SI 1018-1077)) versus 33 % ( 792 infections averted ( 763-821)) for oral PrEP. The relative benefit of long-acting injectable PrEP was sensitive to the assumed efficacy of injections received every 8 weeks , discontinuation rates , and terminal drug half-life. Long-acting injectable PrEP has the potential to produce larger reductions in HIV<pathogen> transmission in MSM than oral PrEP. However , the real-world , population-level impact of this approach will depend on uptake of this prevention method and its effectiveness , as well as retention of patients in clinical care. National Institute on Drug Abuse and National Institute of Mental Health.