  Datamining ( DM) has , over the last decade , received increased attention in the medical domain and has been widely used to analyze medical datasets in order to extract useful knowledge and previously unknown patterns. However , historical medical data can often comprise inconsistent , noisy , imbalanced , missing and high dimensional data. These challenges lead to a serious bias in predictive modeling and reduce the performance of DM techniques. Data preprocessing is , therefore , an essential step in knowledge discovery as regards improving the quality of data and making it appropriate and suitable for DM techniques. The objective of this paper is to review the use of preprocessing techniques in clinical datasets. We performed a systematic map of studies regarding the application of data preprocessing to healthcare and published between January 2000 and December 2017. A search string was determined on the basis of the mapping questions and the PICO categories. The search string was then applied in digital databases covering the fields of computer science and medical informatics in order to identify relevant studies. The studies were initially selected by reading their titles , abstracts and keywords. Those that were selected at that stage were then reviewed using a set of inclusion and exclusion criteria in order to eliminate any that were not relevant. This process resulted in 126 primary studies. Selected studies were analyzed and classified according to their publication years and channels , research type , empirical type and contribution type. The findings of this mapping study revealed that researchers have paid a considerable amount of attention to preprocessing in medical DM in last decade. A significant number of the selected studies used data reduction and cleaning preprocessing tasks. Moreover , the disciplines in which preprocessing have received most attention are: cardiology , endocrinology and oncology. Researchers should develop and implement standards for an effective integration of multiple medical data types. Moreover , we identified the need to perform literature reviews.