  Due to the rising life expectancy , bone diseases ( e.g. osteoporosis , osteoarthritis) and trauma ( e.g. fracture) have become an important socio-economic burden. Accurate visualization and quantification of the bone microstructure in vivo is seen as an important step to enhance diagnosis and treatment. Micro-computed tomography ( microCT) has become the gold standard in three-dimensional ( 3D) imaging of trabecular bone structure. Yet , usage is limited to ex vivo analyses , hence , it can not be used to evaluate bone and bone adaptive responses in a patient. High-resolution peripheral computed tomography ( HR-pQCT) is considered the best technique to measure the bone microarchitecture in vivo. By design HR-pQCT is limited to scanning extremities , such as the distal radius and distal tibia with a limited field of view and long scanning time ( ~ 2 à 3 min. for a stack of 0.9 cm). Cone-beam computed tomography ( CBCT) is a promising alternative with a much larger field of view. Yet , CBCT is challenged by artefacts that reduce image contrast , such that it is currently being used for qualitative evaluation only. Therefore , the aims of this work were first to enhance image contrast and second to determine the accuracy of high-resolution CBCT for bone microarchitectural assessment. Trapezia of nineteen female arthritic patients were scanned twice ex vivo; once using CBCT ( NewTom 5G , Cefla , Verona , Italy) at a nominal voxel size of 75 μm and once using microCT ( SkyScan 1172 , Bruker , Kontich , Belgium) at a voxel size of 19.84 μm. The CBCT-scans were reconstructed following 2 protocols: ( 1) using the commercial software delivered with the scanner and ( 2) using in-house developed software. After reconstruction and image processing , the images were segmented using adaptive thresholding. Bone morphometric parameters including bone volume ( BV) , total tissue volume ( TV) , bone volume fraction ( BV/TV) , bone surface density ( BS/TV) , trabecular thickness ( Tb.Th) , trabecular separation ( Tb.Sp) and trabecular number ( Tb.N) were calculated. Statistical evaluations were made at a significance level of 5 %. Significant correlations were found between the CBCT-based bone parameters and the microCT-based parameters with R