  Complementary integrative health therapies have a perioperative role in the reduction of pain , analgesic use , and anxiety<symptom> , and increasing patient satisfaction. However , long implementation lags have been quantified. The Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research ( CFIR) can help mitigate this translational problem. We reviewed evidence for several nonpharmacological treatments ( CFIR domain: characteristics of interventions) and studied external context and organizational readiness for change by surveying providers at 11 Veterans Affairs ( VA) hospitals ( domains: outer and inner settings). We asked patients about their willingness to receive music and studied the association between this and known risk factors for opioid use ( domain: characteristics of individuals). We implemented a protocol for the perioperative use of digital music players loaded with veteran-preferred playlists and evaluated its penetration in a subgroup of patients undergoing joint replacements over a 6-month period ( domain: process of implementation). We then extracted data on postoperative recovery time and other outcomes , comparing them with historic and contemporary cohorts. Evidence varied from strong and direct for perioperative music and acupuncture , to modest or weak and indirect for mindfulness , yoga , and tai chi , respectively. Readiness for change surveys completed by 97 perioperative providers showed overall positive scores ( mean > 0 on a scale from -2 to +2 , equivalent to > 2.5 on the 5-point Likert scale). Readiness was higher at Durham ( +0.47) versus most other VA hospitals ( range +0.05 to +0.63). Of 3307 veterans asked about willingness to receive music , approximately 68 % ( n = 2252) answered `` yes. '' In multivariable analyses , a positive response ( acceptability) was independently predicted by younger age and higher mean preoperative pain scores ( > 4 out of 10 over 90 days before admission) , factors associated with opioid overuse. Penetration was modest in the targeted subset ( 39 received music out of a possible 81 recipients) , potentially reduced by device nonavailability due to diffusion into nontargeted populations. Postoperative recovery time was not changed , suggesting smooth integration into workflow. CFIR-guided implementation of perioperative music was feasible at a tertiary VA hospital , with moderate penetration in a high-risk subset of patients. Use of digital music players with preferred playlists was supported by strong evidence , tension for change , modest readiness among providers , good acceptability among patients ( especially those at risk for opioid overuse) , and a protocolized approach. Further study is needed to identify similar frameworks for effective knowledge-translation activities.