  Robotically assisted minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass is an alternative to sternotomy-based surgery in properly selected patients. Identifying the left anterior descending artery when it is deep in the epicardial fat can be particularly challenging through a 5- to 6-cm mini-thoracotomy incision. The objective of this study was to evaluate a technique for predicting conversion to sternotomy or complicated left anterior descending artery anastomosis using preoperative cardiac-gated computed tomography angiograms. Retrospective review of 75 patients who underwent robotically assisted minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass for whom a preoperative computed tomography angiogram was available. The distance from the left anterior descending artery to the myocardium was measured on a standardized `` 5-chamber '' axial computed tomography view. The relative risk of sternotomy or complicated anastomosis was compared between patients whose left anterior descending artery was resting directly on the myocardium ( left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance = 0 mm) with those whose left anterior descending artery was resting above ( left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance > 0 mm). The average left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance was 3.2 ± 2.6 mm ( range = 0-11.5 mm). Fourteen patients ( 18.7 %) had an left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance of 0 mm. Of the entire group of 75 patients , 6 ( 8.0 %) required conversion to sternotomy. Four others ( 5.3 %) were reported to have a complication with the anastomosis intraoperatively. For patients with left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance of 0 mm , the relative risk of sternotomy or complicated anastomosis was 18.0 ( 95 % confidence interval = 4.3-75.6 , P = 0.0001). In our experience , patients with left anterior descending artery to the myocardium distance of 0 mm were at significantly higher risk of either conversion to sternotomy or technically challenging anastomosis , with 8 ( 57.1 %) of 14 patients in this group experiencing either end point. This novel measurement may be useful to identify patients who may have anatomy , which is not well suited to the robotically assisted minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass approach.