  Disseminated castration-resistant prostate cancer ( CRPC) is a common disease in men that is characterized by limited survival and resistance to androgen-deprivation therapy. The increase in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2) signaling contributes to androgen receptor activity in a subset of patients with CRPC; however , enigmatically , HER2-targeted therapies have demonstrated a lack of efficacy in patients with CRPC. Aberrant glycosylation is a hallmark of cancer and involves key processes that support cancer progression. Using transcriptomic analysis of prostate cancer data sets , histopathologic examination of clinical specimens , and in vivo experiments of xenograft models , we reveal in this study a coordinated increase in glycan-binding protein , galectin-4 , specific glycosyltransferases of core 1 synthase , glycoprotein- N-acetylgalactosamine 3-β-galactosyltransferase 1 ( C1GALT1) and ST3 beta-galactoside α-2,3-sialyltransferase 1 ( ST3GAL1) , and resulting mucin-type O-glycans during the progression of CRPC. Furthermore , galectin-4 engaged with C1GALT1-dependent O-glycans to promote castration resistance and metastasis by activating receptor tyrosine kinase signaling and cancer cell stemness properties mediated by SRY-box 9 ( SOX9). This galectin-glycan interaction up-regulated the MYC-dependent expression of C1GALT1 and ST3GAL1 , which altered cellular mucin-type O-glycosylation to allow for galectin-4 binding. In clinical prostate cancer , high-level expression of C1GALT1 and galectin-4 together predict poor overall survival compared with low-level expression of C1GALT1 and galectin-4. In summary , MYC regulates abnormal O-glycosylation , thus priming cells for binding to galectin-4 and downstream signaling , which promotes castration resistance and metastasis.-Tzeng , S.-F. , Tsai , C.-H. , Chao , T.-K. , Chou , Y.-C. , Yang , Y.-C. , Tsai , M.-H. , Cha , T.-L. , Hsiao , P.-W. O-Glycosylation-mediated signaling circuit drives metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.