  Acute kidney injury ( AKI) is a common and serious complication after hip fracture surgery in older adults. Hypoalbuminemia is a known independent risk factor for AKI. However , few studies have investigated the relationship between early postoperative hypoalbuminemia and AKI after hip fracture surgery. Therefore , we sought to determine the incidence of and risk factors for AKI and the effects of early postoperative hypoalbuminemia on AKI incidence after surgery for hip fractures , especially intertrochanteric fractures of the proximal femur. In this retrospective cohort study from a single center , we reviewed the medical records of 481 consecutive patients ( > 60 years) who underwent surgery for intertrochanteric fracture of the proximal femur. Multiple logistic regression was performed to identify independent risk factors for AKI. After determining the cut-off value of the minimal level of postoperative serum albumin during the first two postoperative days , we divided the patients into two groups: group 1 included 251 patients whose minimal early postoperative serum albumin level was < 2.9 g/dL during the first two postoperative days; and group 2 included 230 patients whose minimal early postoperative serum albumin level was ≥ 2.9 g/dL. The incidence of AKI was analyzed using inverse probability of treatment weighting ( IPTW) , propensity score matching ( PSM) , and propensity score matching weighting ( PSMW) analyses. The incidence of AKI , defined based on the Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes criteria , was 11.8 % ( n = 57). Chronic kidney disease and the minimal early postoperative serum albumin level < 2.9 g/dL at any point during the first two postoperative days were independent risk factors for AKI. The IPTW , PSM , and PSMW analyses comparing the incidence of AKI between the two groups revealed that the minimal early postoperative serum albumin level < 2.9 g/dL was significantly associated with AKI development ( P < 0.001 , P = 0.025 , and P = 0.011 , respectively). The incidence of postoperative AKI was 11.8 %. Our findings demonstrate that early postoperative hypoalbuminemia is an independent risk factor for AKI in patients undergoing surgery for intertrochanteric fracture of the proximal femur.