  Achalasia is a chronic<disease> disease<disease> affecting the myenteric plexus of the esophagus and lower esophageal sphincter. Treatment is aimed at palliating symptoms to improve quality of life. Treatment options for symptom relapse after esophagomyotomy include botox injection , repeat myotomy , per-oral endoscopic myotomy , or pneumatic balloon dilation ( PBD). Data demonstrating the safety and efficacy of PBD for recurrence are scarce. With a lack of published data , guidelines have suggested avoiding PBD for recurrent achalasia because of concern for a high risk of perforation. A retrospective review of patients who underwent PBD for recurrent symptoms of achalasia after esophagomyotomy between 2007 and 2017 was conducted. PBD was performed at 30 mm and held for 60 s under fluoroscopic guidance. Patients with residual symptoms had subsequent dilations at increasing 5 mm increments to a maximum of 40 mm. Patient demographics , Eckardt scores , presence of hiatal hernia , time from myotomy to recurrence , and diagnostic modalities were reported. The primary outcome was need for further endoscopic or surgical intervention. Complications are reported as secondary outcomes. One-hundred eight esophagomyotomies were done during the study period. Fourteen patients underwent PBD for recurrent symptoms. The median time to symptom recurrence after esophagomyotomy was 28 months. The median Eckardt score was 6. Ten of 14 patients had an intervention between the initial surgery and PBD ( 9 standard dilations and 1 botox injection). A total of 23 PBD were done. Seven patients required dilation at 35 mm and two patients required dilation at 40 mm. Eleven patients required no further intervention at a median follow-up of 27.7 months. There were three treatment failures: one required repeat esophagomyotomy and two had no further treatments. There were no periprocedural complications. Serial PBD is safe and effective in treatment of recurrent symptoms of achalasia after esophagomyotomy.