  To investigate the effect of hexabromocyclododecanes ( HBCDs) on cell proliferation and the expression of the three important cell nuclear receptor of retinoic X receptor α ( RXRα) , peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ ( PPARγ) , pregnane X receptor ( PXR) and their interaction in Neuro-2a ( N2a). Neuro-2a cells were treated with different concentrations of diastereoisomers , of HBCDs which were α-HBCD , β-HBCD , γ-HBCD , respectively , and cell toxicity was analyzed using the cell counting kit-8 ( CCK-8) assay. The impact of HBCDs on cell cycles of Neuro-2a were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , and the expression levels in mRNA and protein for the three nuclearreceptors ( RXRα , PPARγ , PXR andits target genes CYP3A11) were determined by RT-PCR and Western blot , respectively. The interaction between the receptors of RXRα , PXR , PPARγ was explored by immunoprecipitation. Cytotoxicity of β-HBCD was the greatest among the three diastereoisomers , it was significantly greater than α-HBCD , however cytotoxicity of γ-HBCD for the Neuro-2a cells couldn ' t be determined. Moreover α-HBCD , β-HBCD induced significant cytotoxicity in a time-dose-response relationship to Neuro-2a cells ( P < 0. 05) , IC _ ( 50) of α-HBCD , β-HBCD to Neuro-2a cells were 60. 07 and 10. 52 μmol/L , respectively. α- , β-HBCD blocked the cell cycle at G2/M phase. The expression levels in mRNA and protein of RXRα , PPARγ , PXR , CYP3A11 were significantly increased after cells exposure to α-HBCD and β-HBCD 24 h. An interaction between RXRα , PPARγ and PXR in Neuro-2a cells existed no matter before and after exposure to HBCD. α-HBCD , β-HBCD inhibit proliferation of Neuro-2a cells , cell cycle mainly was arrested at G2/M phase. α-HBCD , β-HBCD could up-regulated the expression levels of RXRα , PPARγ , PXR. Meanwhile , the expression of CYP3A11 which is downstream gene of PXR also significantly increased ( P < 0. 05). Interaction between RXRα , PPARγ and PXR exist whether or not exposure to α- , β-HBCD. The molecular mechanisms of interaction between the receptors need further study.