  Unplanned sidestepping and single-leg landing have both been used to screen athletes for injury risk in sport. The aim of this study was to directly compare the lower limb mechanics of three single-leg landing tasks and an unplanned sidestepping task. Thirteen elite female team sport athletes completed a series of non-contact single-leg drop landings , single-leg countermovement jumps , single-leg jump landings and unplanned sidestepping in a randomized counterbalanced design. Three dimensional kinematics ( 250 Hz) and ground reaction force ( 2,000 Hz) data with a participant specific lower limb skeletal model were used to calculate and compare hip , knee and ankle joint kinematics , peak joint moments , instantaneous joint power and joint work during the weight acceptance phase of each sporting task ( α = 0.05). Peak knee joint moments and relevant injury risk thresholds were used to classify each athlete 's anterior cruciate ligament injury risk during unplanned sidestepping and single-leg jump landing. Results showed that peak joint moments , power and work were greater during the single-leg jump landing task when compared to the single-leg drop landings and single-leg countermovement jumps tasks. Peak frontal and sagittal plane knee joint moments , knee joint power , as well as hip and knee joint work were greater during unplanned sidestepping when compared to the landing tasks. Peak ankle joint moments , power and work were greater during the landing tasks when compared to unplanned sidestepping. For 4 of the 13 athletes tested , their anterior cruciate ligament injury risk classification changed depending on whether they performed an unplanned sidestepping or single-leg jump landing testing procedure. To summarize , a single-leg jump landing testing procedure places a larger mechanical on the ankle joint when compared to single-leg drop landings , single-leg countermovement jumps and unplanned sidestepping. An unplanned sidestepping testing procedure places a larger mechanical demand on the knee joint when compared to single-leg landing tasks. Both unplanned sidestepping and single-leg jump landing testing procedures are recommended for classifying an athlete 's anterior cruciate ligament injury risk in sport.