  Primary dysmenorrhea is a prevalent condition causing quality of life ( QOL) reduction for many women , resulting from pain as well as parallel social and psychological distress. Yoga reduces pain and sympathetic reactivity , thus promoting QOL. This article reports a systematic review of the evidence for the effectiveness of yoga as a QOL improvement method for women with primary dysmenorrhea. The PRISMA guidelines were used in preparation of this review. Ovid MEDLINE , PsycINFO , CINAHL , Scopus , PubMed , ScienceDirect , Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ( CDSR) , and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL) were screened through January 2017 using the keywords yoga , meditation , menstrual cycle , dysmenorrhea , pelvic pain , and prostaglandins. English-language randomized controlled trials ( RCTs) and quasi-experimental studies regarding yoga , primary dysmenorrhea , and QOL were eligible; all yoga styles were included. Two independent reviewers rated the methodological quality of each study selected for review using the Downs and Black checklist; possible scores ranged from 0 to 32. Ratings were established through consensus. The search yielded a total of 378 articles , of which 14 ( age range 13-45 years , N = 1409) met the criteria for final review: 8 RCTs and 6 quasi-experimental studies. Downs and Black ratings were predominantly moderate in quality with moderate risk of bias , ranging from 15 to 23 ( RCTs) and 10 to 17 ( quasi-experimental studies). Statistically significant improvements along most QOL domains , including physical pain , sleep , concentration , negative feelings , social relationships , work capacity , and overall QOL , were identified after a yoga intervention. Results indicate preliminary evidence for yoga as a safe and effective QOL improvement method for women with primary dysmenorrhea. Practitioners may consider yoga for management of primary dysmenorrhea. However , future research using larger RCTs of high methodological quality is needed to ascertain the magnitude of yoga 's clinical significance.