  To prepare the asiaticoside nanoemulsions ( ASI-NEs) and asiaticoside nanoemulsions-based gels ( ASI-NBGs) , compare them with the commercial cream of asiaticoside ( ASI-C) in terms of transdermal characteristics , and investigate the transdermal mechanism of ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs. Their transdermal characteristics were studied by using Franz diffusion cells. The effect of topical ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs on ultrastructure of rabbit skin was evaluated by using HE staining method. The localization and the permeation pathway of asiaticoside were visually investigated by using laser scanning confocal microscope ( CLSM). The transdermal studies in vitro showed that the cumulative amount of ASI permeated from ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs at 12 h after application were ( 3 504.30 ± 180.93) , ( 1 187.40 ± 128.88) μg · cm ⁻² respectively , 6.57 , 2.23 times of that in the control group of ASI-C; the drug deposition of ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs in skin was ( 159.48 ± 7.47) , ( 120.53 ± 5.71) μg · cm ⁻² respectively , 5.93 , 4.48 times of that of ASI-C. HE staining of the rabbit skin after application of ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs showed that the epidermis structure was basically intact; stratum corneum was loosed and the keratin fragment was increased; at the same time , the gap of prickle cell was increased and the basal cells were arranged loosely. The study of CLSM showed that significant percutaneous enhancer effect was observed for ASI-NEs after the topical application of 6 h , as the fluorescent compound was penetrated in the dermis and diffused uniformly. The fluorescence area and the integral optical density ( IOD) were 28.81 , 32.51 times of that in the FITC aqueous solution group , respectively. The fluorescent preparations showed strong fluorescence in the epidermis , but weak in deeper layers; with the increase of treatment time , the fluorescence in deeper layer was increased and stronger in skin appendages. The prepared ASI-NEs and ASI-NBGs have good transdermal characteristics and the transdermal mechanism is related to breaking the ultrastructure of stratum corneum and penetrating by the path of skin adnexa.