  Macrophage infiltration is common to both emphysema and atherosclerosis , and cigarette smoke down-regulates the macrophage cholesterol efflux transporter ATP binding cassette ( ABC) A1. This decreased cholesterol efflux results in lipid-laden macrophages. We hypothesize that cigarette smoke adversely affects cholesterol transport via an ABCA1-dependent mechanism in macrophages , enhancing TLR4/myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 ( Myd88) signaling and resulting in matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP) up-regulation and exacerbation of pulmonary<symptom> inflammation<symptom>. ABCA1 is significantly down-regulated in the lung upon smoke exposure conditions. Macrophages exposed to cigarette smoke in vivo and in vitro exhibit impaired cholesterol efflux correlating with significantly decreased ABCA1 expression , up-regulation of the TLR4/Myd88 pathway , and downstream MMP-9 and MMP-13 expression. Treatment with liver X receptor ( LXR) agonist restores ABCA1 expression after short-term smoke exposure and attenuates the inflammatory response; after long-term smoke exposure , there is also attenuated physiologic and morphologic changes of emphysema. In vitro , treatment with LXR agonist decreases macrophage inflammatory activation in wild-type but not ABCA1 knockout mice , suggesting an ABCA1-dependent mechanism of action. These studies demonstrate an important association between cigarette smoke exposure and cholesterol-mediated pathways in the macrophage inflammatory response. Modulation of these pathways through manipulation of ABCA1 activity effectively blocks cigarette smoke-induced inflammation<symptom> and provides a potential novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.-Sonett , J. , Goldklang , M. , Sklepkiewicz , P. , Gerber , A. , Trischler , J. , Zelonina , T. , Westerterp , M. , Lemaître , V. , Okada , V. , D'Armiento , J. A critical role for ABC transporters in persistent lung inflammation<symptom> in the development of emphysema after smoke exposure.