  Background In December 2014 Slovene Chamber of Pharmacies defined procedures for Medicines Use Review ( MUR) in Slovenia , together with an educational program and certification to ensure pharmacists ' competency to perform MUR. The first 15 pharmacists were certified in June 2015 and implemented the service in their practices. Objective This study aimed to understand the implementation of MUR from the perspectives of the first community pharmacists providing the service in practice. Methods A focus group with first MUR providers took place in February 2016 , 6 months after the first pharmacists were certified to provide MUR service. Based on regional and institutional criteria ten pharmacists from the first certified group were chosen and invited to participate in guided discussion , where the development and assurance of competencies , the provision of the service in practice and the future of the service were addressed. The discussion was voice recorded with written consent obtained from all participants. Analysis was performed in NVivo 11 software with the use of inductive qualitative content analysis approach. Main outcome measure Views , challenges and opportunities for the Medicines Use Review service in Slovenia. Results Seven pharmacists attended the focus group , 5 from public pharmaceutical institution and 2 from concessionary pharmacies. Three main thematical categories were identified: quality assurance of MUR , different stakeholders ' perceptions of MUR and MURs ' management. Pharmacists ' broad knowledge in pharmacotherapy was emphasized as the basis of quality provision and main advantage in performing MUR in comparison with other healthcare professions. Recognisability of MUR among different stakeholders should be improved with comprehensive approach in marketing of the service. Positive patient feedback was reported , however persuading them to attend MUR presented a challenge. Better management of the service , especially in terms of work organization , would facilitate MUR provision. Conclusion Overall , positive experiences with implementation and provision were reported. To ensure MUR sustainability , the service needs to become more widely known and opportunities must be provided for continuing professional development of providing pharmacists.