  The present study focuses on the effects of different highsucrose/high-fat diet feeding time on body<symptom> weight , glucose and lipid metabolism parameters and pathological changes of pancreas and liver in pregnant mice. Female C57 BL/6 J mice were divided into three groups randomly: normal control group ( C) and two different high-sucrose/high-fat diet feeding time groups ( H1 and H2). Body<symptom> weight , food and energy intakes and blood glucose were measured at multiple time points before and during pregnancy. At the 17 thday of pregnancy , the mice were killed after blood collection. The parameters about glucose and lipid metabolism and serum insulin level were studied. Meanwhile , pancreas and liver tissues were collected for pathological examination. The body<symptom> weight of group H1 and group H2 were respectivelyhigher than that of group C at multiple time points before pregnancy. With the increase of high-sucrose/high-fat diet feeding time , the tendency of body<symptom> weight during pregnancy was showed as: group H2 > group H1 > group C. At the 10 thday of pregnancy , the tendency of blood glucose level was showed as: group H2 > group H1 > group C. At the 17 thday of pregnancy , there was no significant difference in blood glucose and insulin levels among the three groups. However , with the increase of high-sucrose/high-fat diet feeding time , the score of β-cell function had a decreasing trend. Furthermore , the LDL-C level in group H1 and group H2 was significantly higher than that in group C respectively. Histopathological observations showed that the morphological structures of pancreas and liver in group C were normal. However , hypertrophy of pancreatic islets and fatty deposition of liver were existed in the other two groups , and the pathological changes in group H2 were more serious than those in group H1. By controlling the feeding time of high-sucrose/high-fat diet , the progressive development of gestational diabetes mellitus in C57 BL/6 J mice could be observed roughly.