  Mandibular advancement devices ( MAD) are effective in reducing apnea episodes and they are frequently used as first-line therapy in obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA) patients. The MAD must be used every night for a lifetime and since it performs its function discharging the forces on dental elements the aim of this systematic review was to identify the dental and skeletal long-term side effects of MAD therapy and to evaluate the influence of time on them in OSA or snoring patients. An electronic search was performed in MEDLINE , Cochrane Database , Google Scholar Beta , Scopus , and LILACS. Studies until 4 April 2018 were analysed , without language restrictions. Randomized controlled trials and cohort studies investigating dental and/or skeletal side effects on adult patients wearing MAD for OSA or snoring treatment with at least 2 years follow-up were included and independently evaluated by two investigators. The quality of evidence was evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development and Evaluation ( GRADE) and the risk of bias by means of Cochrane 's tools. For each study included and for each dental and/or skeletal parameter , the difference in means and 95 % CI was calculated between baseline and follow-up. Twenty-one studies with follow-up between 2 and 11 years were included. The side effects reported were a reduction in overjet , overbite , and in the upper incisor inclination , and an increase in lower incisor inclination , A point-Nasion-B point , and anterior facial height. The meta-regression analysis showed that the side effects were influenced by the therapy duration for all parameters ( P < 0.05). The quality of evidence was low/moderate. MAD therapy produces time-related dental and skeletal side effects. After a long period of treatment , the dental side effects are clinically relevant and therefore the clinician should inform the patients about this issue. Since the side effects are progressive , patients need to be continuously monitored over time. The study protocol was not registered.