  OBJECTIVE The overall goal of this study was to develop an image-guided spinal stereotactic setup for intraoperative intraspinal microstimulation ( ISMS). System requirements were as follows: 1) ability to place implants in various segments of the spinal cord , targeting the gray matter with a < 0.5-mm error; 2) modularity; and 3) compatibility with standard surgical tools. METHODS A spine-mounted stereotactic system was developed , optimized , and tested in pigs. The system consists of a platform supporting a micromanipulator with 6 degrees of freedom. It is modular and flexible in design and can be applied to various regions of the spine. An intraoperative ultrasound imaging technique was also developed and assessed for guidance of electrode alignment prior to and after electrode insertion into the spinal cord. Performance of the ultrasound-guided stereotactic system was assessed both in pigs ( 1 live and 6 fresh cadaveric pigs) and on the bench using four gelatin-based surrogate spinal<disease> cords<disease>. Pig experiments were conducted to evaluate the performance of ultrasound imaging in aligning the electrode trajectory using three techniques and under two conditions. Benchtop experiments were performed to assess the performance of ultrasound-guided targeting more directly. These experiments were used to quantify the accuracy of electrode alignment as well as assess the accuracy of the implantation depth and the error in spatial targeting within the gray matter of the spinal cord. As proof of concept , an intraoperative ISMS experiment was also conducted in an additional live pig using the stereotactic system , and the resulting movements and electromyographic responses were recorded. RESULTS The stereotactic system was quick to set up ( < 10 minutes) and provided sufficient stability and range of motion to reach the ISMS targets reliably in the pigs. Transverse ultrasound images with the probe angled at 25 ° -45 ° provided acceptable contrast between the gray and white matter of the spinal cord. In pigs , the largest electrode alignment error using ultrasound guidance , relative to the minor axis of the spinal cord , was ≤ 3.57 ° ( upper bound of the 95 % confidence interval). The targeting error with ultrasound guidance in bench testing for targets 4 mm deep into the surrogate spinal<disease> cords<disease> was 0.2 ± 0.02 mm ( mean ± standard deviation). CONCLUSIONS The authors developed and evaluated an ultrasound-guided spinal stereotactic system for precise insertion of intraspinal implants. The system is compatible with existing spinal instrumentation. Intraoperative ultrasound imaging of the spinal cord aids in alignment of the implants before insertion and provides feedback during and after implantation. The ability of ultrasound imaging to distinguish between spinal cord gray and white matter also improves confidence in the localization of targets within the gray matter. This system would be suitable for accurate guidance of intraspinal electrodes and drug or cell injections.