  The association of vitamin D deficiency and pelvic floor dysfunction has been examined by numerous studies. Lower urinary tract symptoms ( LUTS) associated with bladder filling and voiding functions are common in both sexes. A recent study reports a higher incidence of LTUS in men over 50 years old with vitamin D deficiency. The aim of the study is to investigate whether there is a difference in the Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms frequency between women with vitamin D deficiency and the control group or not. In this case control study , a total of 150 women who had a measured vitamin D level within a month were divided into two groups , one with a serum vitamin D deficiency and the other with a normal vitamin D level. Both groups were evaluated in terms of menopausal status , numbers of pregnancy and delivery , pelvic examination findings , pelvic floor muscle strength , level of pelvic organ prolapse , LUTS scores , and the findings were recorded. Both groups were compared for the presence of lower urinary system symptoms. The BFLUTS validated for Turkish-speaking populations was used to assess lower urinary system symptoms. Statistical analyses were performed via IBM SPSS Statistics 23.0. The results were considered significant at p < 0.05 and a confidence interval of 95 %. Vitamin D deficiency was detected in 67.3 % of the participants. No significant differences were found between the groups regarding variables that could affect lower urinary system symptoms such as menopausal status , presence of pelvic organ prolapse and neonatal weight ( fetal macrosomia) The Pelvic Floor Muscle Strength was significantly lower in the group with vitamin D deficiency than the control group. BFLUTS scores of premenopausal women with vitamin D deficiency were found to be similar to the control group , likewise no significant differences in the BFLUTS scores were detected in postmenopausal women. Although vitamin D deficiency causes a significant reduction in pelvic floor muscle strength , no significant correlation was found between lower urinary tract symptoms and vitamin D deficiency. There is a necessity of prospective randomized controlled trials to investigate the relationship between vitamin D deficiency and pelvic floor functions.