  Deoxynivalenol ( DON) is one of the most common mycotoxin contaminants of animal feed worldwide and brings significant threats to the animal production. However , studies concerning the effect of DON on fish intestine are scarce. This study explored the effects of DON on intestinal physical barrier in juvenile grass carp ( Ctenopharyngodon idella). A total of 1440 juvenile grass carp ( 12.17 ± 0.01 g) were fed six diets containing graded levels of DON ( 27 , 318 , 636 , 922 , 1243 and 1515 μg/kg diet) for 60 days. This study for the first time documented that DON caused body malformation in fish , and histopathological lesions<symptom> , oxidative damage , declining antioxidant capacity , cell apoptosis and destruction of tight junctions in the intestine of fish. The results indicated that compared with control group ( 27 μg/kg diet) , DON: ( 1) increased the reactive oxygen species ( ROS) , malondialdehyde ( MDA) and protein carbonyl ( PC) content , and up-regulated the mRNA levels of Kelch-like-ECH-associated protein 1 ( Keap1: Keap1a but not Keap1b) , whereas decreased glutathione ( GSH) content and antioxidant enzymes activities , and down-regulated the mRNA levels of antioxidant enzymes ( except GSTR in MI) and NF-E2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2) , as well as the protein levels of Nrf2 in fish intestine. ( 2) up-regulated cysteinyl aspartic acid-protease ( caspase) -3 , -7 , -8 , -9 , apoptotic protease activating factor-1 ( Apaf-1) , Bcl2-associated X protein ( Bax) , Fas ligand ( FasL) and c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase ( JNK) mRNA levels , whereas down-regulated B-cell lymphoma-2 ( bcl-2) and myeloid cell leukemia-1 ( Mcl-1) mRNA levels in fish intestine. ( 3) down-regulated the mRNA levels of ZO-1 , ZO-2b , occludin , claudin-c ,- f , -7 a , -7 b , -11 ( except claudin-b and claudin-3c) , whereas up-regulated the mRNA levels of claudin-12 , -15 a ( not -15 b) and myosin light chain kinase ( MLCK) in fish intestine. All above data indicated that DON caused the oxidative damage , apoptosis and the destruction of tight junctions via Nrf2 , JNK and MLCK signaling in the intestine of fish , respectively. Finally , based on PWG , FE , PC and MDA , the safe dose of DON for grass carp were all estimated to be 318 μg/kg diet.