  The aim of this study was to investigate the short-term responses of dairy cows during periods of change in the concentrate allowance in an automatic milking system. The experiment had a design with a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement including 2 types of concentrates and 2 amounts of concentrates ( type O: mix of pelleted concentrate and steamrolled , acidified barley; type S: pelleted) in amounts of 3 and 6 kg/d. The experiment length was 11 wk. The concentrate type changed between wk 6 and 7 and included both increase and decrease in concentrate allowance for each concentrate type. The concentrate allowance was changed by 0.5 kg/d over 6 d. The 96 cows ( 48 Danish Jersey , 48 Danish Holstein) included in the experiment were blocked according to breed , parity , and days in milk , and randomly divided into 8 groups of treatment order. The cows visited the automatic milking unit more often when concentrate type O was offered , but not when an increased concentrate allowance was provided. The changes in concentrate intake and partial mixed ration ( PMR) eating time showed a symmetrical pattern between the periods of increasing allowance and decreasing allowance. However , PMR intake and milk yield varied in the magnitude of the responses , indicating that these responses may not be driven by the same underlying mechanisms during increase and decrease in concentrate allowance. The daily lying time increased and the PMR eating rate decreased during periods of both increase and decrease in concentrate allowance. We found no significant change in milk yield during increase in concentrate allowance , despite a higher milk yield during periods with constant concentrate allowance at the high concentrate amount; however , the milk yield decreased during periods of decrease in concentrate allowance. Visit frequency , lying time , and steps changed during periods of changes in concentrate allowance without showing any differences at the constant concentrate allowance. In conclusion , these results indicate that it may be difficult to adjust the individual concentrate allowance based on the short-term responses of the cow.