  To study the effects on oxidative stress and the expression of PPARα-related genes and protein in the liver of rats induced by pentadecafluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA). A total of 28 male SD rats were randomly divided into four groups: control group: double distilled water , low dose group: PFOA 1 mg/ ( kg · d) , middle dose group: PFOA 5 mg/ ( kg · d) , high dose group: PFOA 25 mg/ ( kg · d) , and were administrated by gavage once a day for 14 days take the organization after anesthesia , according to the follow-up experiments need treatment. The activity of oxidative stressrelated enzymes and the content of malondialdehyde ( MDA) in liver tissue were detected. The mRNA levels of peroxisome proliferators-activited receptors α ( PPARα) and cytochrome P4504A1 ( CYP4A1) were detected by real-time PCR. The protein expression of PPARα was detected by Western blot. There was significant difference between high dose group and control group of the body<symptom> weight ( P < 0. 05). The liver weight and relative liver weight of the middle and high dose groups were significantly higher than those of the control group ( P < 0. 05). The activity of superoxide dismutase ( SOD) and glutathione peroxidase ( GSH-Px) in the liver of the low dose group were significantly higher than that of the control group ( P < 0. 05). The content of MDA in liver of middle and high dose groups were increased by 2. 5 times and 3. 5 times compared with that of control group ( P < 0. 05). The expression of PPARα and its regulated CYP4A1 mRNA were significantly increased in low , middle and high dose groups. The expression of PPARα protein in the low , middle and high dose groups were up-regulated. PFOA exposure can lead to oxidative stress in rat liver , resulting in antioxidant enzymes SOD and GSH-Px and MDA changes. At the same time , PFOA exposure induced up regulation of PPARα and CYP4A1 in the liver of rats to enhance theβ-oxidation of fatty acids , leading to lipid peroxidation , which has obvious toxic effects on rat liver.