  Childbirth consists of a three stage period beginning with uterine contractions and ending in the expulsion of the placenta. The present study was conducted to compare the effects of Ringer 's solution , dextrose solution 5 % and oral intake on the duration of total labor and labor stages ( primary outcome) and the frequency of oxytocin administration and prolonged labor ( secondary outcome) in nulliparous women with spontaneous vaginal delivery. The present randomized clinical trial was conducted on 201 nulliparous women in labor assigned with a randomized block design to three groups , each receiving either Ringer 's solution plus oral fluids , dextrose solution 5 % solution plus oral fluids or oral fluids alone. The solutions were intravenously administered at a rate of 125 ml/h in the groups receiving the solutions and the subjects in the oral fluids group could consume liquids of their choice ( water , orange juice and apple juice). The duration of total labor and labor stages ( the active stage , the second and third stages of labor) were recorded by the researcher in minutes. Furthermore , the frequency of oxytocin administration and prolonged labor were recorded by the researcher by using a checklist. Data were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test , Mann-Whitney 's U-test , chi- square test and Fisher exact test. The mean ( ± SD) duration of total labor was 301.2 ( ± 50.0) minutes in the Ringer group , 171.9 ( ± 36.4) in the dextrose 5 % group and 524.8 ( ± 103.4) in the oral fluids group , suggesting a statistically significant intergroup difference ( p < 0.001). The mean ( ± SD) duration of the active stage of labor was 276.7 ( ± 91.3) minutes in the Ringer group , 150.6 ( ± 78.5) in the dextrose 5 % group and 302.4 ( ± 136.8) in the oral fluids group , suggesting a statistically significant intergroup difference ( p < 0.001). A significant difference was also observed between the three groups in terms of the duration of the third stage of labor ( p < 0.001); however , no significant differences were observed in terms of the duration of the second stage of labor ( p = 0.058). Furthermore , a significant difference was observed between the three groups in terms of the need for oxytocin administration ( p ≤ 0.001) and the frequency of prolonged labor ( p = 0.001). The results suggest that the consumption of dextrose solution by nulliparous women reduces the duration of labor , the need for oxytocin administration and the frequency of prolonged labor compared to when Ringer 's solution and oral fluids are used.