  Several studies have recently found that oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of traumatic brain injury ( TBI) and may represent a target in TBI treatment. Hydrogen-rich water was recently shown to exert neuroprotective effects in various neurological diseases through its antioxidant properties. However , the mechanisms underlying its effects in TBI are not clearly understood. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the neuroprotective role of hydrogen-rich water in rats with TBI and to elucidate the possible mechanisms underlying its effects. The TBI model was constructed according to the modified Feeney weight-drop method. In part 1 of the experiment , we measured oxidative stress levels by observing the changes in catalase ( CAT) , glutathione peroxidase ( GPx) , and malondialdehyde ( MDA) expressions. We also evaluated nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2) levels to determine the role of the protein in the neuroprotective effects against TBI. In part 2 , we verified the neuroprotective effects of hydrogen-rich water in TBI and observed its effects on Nrf2. All the experimental rats were divided into sham group , TBI group , and TBI + hydrogen-rich water-treated ( TBI + HW) group. We randomly chose 20 rats from each group and recorded their 7-d survival rates. Modified neurological severity scores were recorded from an additional six rats per group , which were then sacrificed 24 h after testing. Spectrophotometry was used to measure GPx , CAT , and MDA levels , whereas western blotting , reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction , and immunohistochemistry were used to measure the expression of Nrf2 and downstream factors like heme oxygenase 1 ( HO-1) and NAD ( P) H quinone oxidoreductase 1 ( NQO1). GPx and CAT activity was significantly decreased , and MDA content was increased in the TBI group compared with the sham group at 6 h after TBI. MDA content peaked at 24 h after TBI. Nrf2 nucleoprotein levels were upregulated in the TBI group compared with the sham group and peaked at 24 h after TBI; however , no significant changes in Nrf2 mRNA levels were noted after TBI. Hydrogen-rich water administration significantly increased 7-d survival rates , reduced neurologic deficits , and lowered intracellular oxidative stress levels. Moreover , hydrogen-rich water caused Nrf2 to enter the cell nucleus , which resulted in increases in the expression of downstream factors such as HO-1 and NQO1. Our results indicate that hydrogen-rich water has neuroprotective effects against TBI by reducing oxidative stress and activating the Nrf2 pathway.