  We conducted a multicentre feasibility study to assess the ability to randomise patients between image-guided radiotherapy ( IGRT) and IGRT + high dose rate ( HDR) brachytherapy boost and to adhere to appropriate radiation quality assurance standards. The primary end point was to determine the ability to randomise 60 patients over an 18 month period. Arm 1 ( IGRT) patients received 78 Gy in 39 fractions or 60 Gy in 20 fractions ( physician 's preference) , whereas arm 2 ( IGRT + HDR) received 37.5 Gy in 15 fractions with HDR boost of 15 Gy. The secondary end points included > grade 3 acute genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity , using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 at 3 months , validation of a prospectively defined radiation oncology quality assurance to assess treatment compliance. All analyses were descriptive; no formal comparisons between treatment arms were carried out. Between April 2014 and September 2015 , 57 National Comprehensive Cancer Network ( NCCN)- defined intermediate-risk prostate cancer patients were randomised between IGRT alone ( arm 1; n = 29) and IGRT plus HDR brachytherapy boost ( arm 2; n = 28). Overall , 93 % received the treatment as randomised. There were four patients ( one on IGRT arm 1 and three patients on the IGRT + HDR arm 2) who were treated differently from randomisation assignment. For the 29 patients receiving IGRT ( arm 1) , there were 14 cases reported with minor deviations and three with major deviations. For patients on IGRT + HDR ( arm 2) , there were 18 cases reported with minor deviations and two with major deviations. At 3 months in the IGRT group ( arm 1) , one patient reported grade 3 diarrhoea<disease> , whereas in the IGRT + HDR group ( arm 2) , two patients reported grade 3 haematuria. No other gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicities were reported. The pilot study showed the feasibility of randomisation between treatment with IGRT alone versus IGRT + HDR boost. Treatment compliance was good , including adherence to quality assurance standards.