  While subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation ( STN-DBS) and levodopa improve motor<symptom> symptoms<symptom> in Parkinson disease ( PD) to a similar magnitude , their combined effect remains unclear. We sought to evaluate whether STN-DBS and levodopa yield differential effects on motor outcomes , dyskinesia , and activities of daily living ( ADL) when combined compared to when administered alone. We conducted a meta-analysis of all studies reporting motor , dyskinesia , and ADL outcomes after bilateral STN-DBS in PD with presurgical Unified Parkinson 's Disease Rating Scale ( UPDRS-III) in Medication-OFF and Medication-ON states and postsurgical assessments in four conditions: Stimulation-ON/Medication-ON , Stimulation-ON/Medication-OFF , Stimulation-OFF/Medication-ON , and Stimulation-OFF/Medication-OFF. Dyskinesia duration ( UPDRS item 32) and ADL ( UPDRS-II) were compared between high and low postsurgical levodopa equivalent daily dose ( LEDD) reduction. Random-effects meta-analyses using generic-inverse variance were conducted. Confidence in outcomes effect sizes was assessed. Twelve studies were included ( n = 401 patients). Stimulation-ON/Medication-ON was associated with an UPDRS-III improvement of- 35.7 points ( 95 % confidence interval ,- 40.4 ,- 31.0) compared with Stimulation-OFF/Medication-OFF ,- 11.2 points (- 14.0 ,- 8.4) compared with Stimulation-OFF/Medication-ON , and- 9.5 points (- 11.0 ,- 8.0) compared to Stimulation-ON/Medication-OFF within 5 years. The difference was maintained beyond 5 years by- 28.6 (- 32.8 ,- 24.4) ,- 8.1 (- 10.2 ,- 5.9) , and- 8.0 (- 10.3 ,- 5.6) , respectively. No difference was observed between Stimulation-ON/Medication-OFF and Stimulation-OFF/Medication-ON within and beyond 5 years. Dyskinesia duration and ADL outcomes were similar in high vs. low postsurgical LEDD reduction. Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation and levodopa independently lessened motor severity in PD to a similar magnitude , but their combined effect was greater than either treatment alone , suggesting therapeutic synergism.