  During the past decades neuroanatomic , neuroimaging , and clinical studies have substantially changed the long-standing view of the role of the cerebellum as a sole coordinator of sensorimotor function. Currently , the cerebellum is considered to be crucially implicated in a variety of cognitive , affective , social , and behavioral processes as well. In this chapter we aim to summarize a number of critical insights from different research areas ( neuroanatomy , functional neuroimaging , clinical practice) that provide evidence for a role of the cerebellum in motor<symptom> speech<symptom> and nonmotor language processing in both adults and children. Neuroanatomic studies have provided a robust basis for the development of new insights in the modulatory role of the cerebellum in neurocognition , including nonmotor language processing by means of identifying a dense network of crossed reciprocal connections between the cerebellum and the supratentorial association areas. A topologic distinction has been established between the `` motor '' cerebellum , projecting to the cortical motor areas , and the `` cognitive/affective '' cerebellum , connected with the cortical and limbic association areas. Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated cerebellar involvement in several different language tasks , even after controlling for motor aspects. In addition , several clinical studies have identified a variety of nonmotor linguistic deficits after cerebellar disease in both children and adults , implying a prominent role for the cerebellum in linguistic processes. Functional neuroimaging has confirmed the functional impact of cerebellar lesions<symptom> on remote , structurally intact cortical regions via crossed cerebellocerebral diaschisis. Overall , evidence from neuroanatomic , neuroimaging , and clinical studies shows a ( strongly lateralized) involvement of the cerebellum in a broad spectrum of nonmotor language functions through a dense network of crossed and reciprocal cerebellocerebral connections. It is argued that the cerebellum is involved in language in a similar manner as it is involved in motor functions: through monitoring/coordinating cortical functions via timing and sequencing mechanisms.