  Contactin-associated protein-like 4 ( Cntnap4) is a member of the neurexin superfamily of transmembrane molecules that have critical functions in neuronal cell communication. Cntnap4 knockout mice display decreased presynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid ( GABA) and increased dopamine release that is associated with severe , highly penetrant , repetitive , and perseverative movements commonly found in human autism spectrum disorder patients. However , no known function of Cntnap4 has been revealed besides the nervous system. Meanwhile , secretory protein neural EGFL-like 1 ( Nell-1) is known to exert potent osteogenic effects in multiple small and large animal models without the off-target effects commonly found with bone morphogenetic protein 2. In this study , while searching for a Nell-1-specific cell surface receptor during osteogenesis , we identified and validated a ligand/receptor-like interaction between Nell-1 and Cntnap4 by demonstrating: 1) Nell-1 and Cntnap4 colocalization on the surface of osteogenic-committed cells; 2) high-affinity interaction between Nell-1 and Cntnap4; 3) abrogation of Nell-1-responsive Wnt and MAPK signaling transduction , as well as osteogenic effects , via Cntnap4 knockdown; and 4) replication of calvarial cleidocranial dysplasias-like defects observed in Nell-1-deficient mice in Wnt1-Cre-mediated Cntnap4-knockout transgenic mice. In aggregate , these findings indicate that Cntnap4 plays a critical role in Nell-1-responsive osteogenesis. Further , this is the first functional annotation for Cntnap4 in the musculoskeletal system. Intriguingly , Nell-1 and Cntnap4 also colocalize on the surface of human hippocampal interneurons , implicating Nell-1 as a potential novel ligand for Cntnap4 in the nervous system. This unexpected characterization of the ligand/receptor-like interaction between Nell-1 and Cntnap4 indicates a novel biological functional axis for Nell-1 and Cntnap4 in osteogenesis and , potentially , in neural development and function. © 2018 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.