  Nephropathic cystinosis is a rare lysosomal storage disorder. Patients present in the first year of life with renal Fanconi syndrome<disease> that evolves to progressive chronic kidney disease ( CKD). Despite the multiple risk factors for bone disease , the frequency and severity of skeletal disorders in nephropathic cystinosis have not been described. We performed systematic bone and mineral evaluations of subjects with cystinosis seen at the NIH ( n = 30) , including history and physical examination , serum and urine biochemistries , DXA , vertebral fracture assessment , skeletal radiographs , and renal ultrasound. Additionally , histomorphometric analyses are reported on six subjects seen at the UCLA Bone and Mineral Metabolism Clinic. In NIH subjects , mean age was 20 years ( range , 5 to 44 years) , 60 % were CKD stages G1 to G4 , and 40 % had a renal transplant. Mean bone mineral density ( BMD) Z-scores were decreased in the femoral neck , total hip , and 1/3 radius ( p < 0.05). Low bone mass at one or more sites was present in 46 % of subjects. Twenty-seven percent of subjects reported one or more long bone fractures. Thirty-two percent of subjects had incidental vertebral fractures , which were unrelated to transplant status. Long-bone deformity/bowing was present in 64 %; 50 % had scoliosis. Diffuse osteosclerosis was present in 21 % of evaluated subjects. Risk factors included CKD , phosphate wasting , hypercalciuria , secondary hyperparathyroidism , hypovitaminosis D , male hypogonadism , metabolic acidosis , and glucocorticoid/immunosuppressive therapy. Sixty-one percent of the non-transplanted subjects had ultrasonographic evidence of nephrocalcinosis or nephrolithiasis. Histomorphometric analyses showed impaired mineralization in four of six studied subjects. We conclude that skeletal deformities , decreased bone mass , and vertebral fractures are common and relevant complications of nephropathic cystinosis , even before renal transplantation. Efforts to minimize risk factors for skeletal disease include optimizing mineral metabolism and hormonal status , combined with monitoring for nephrocalcinosis/nephrolithiasis. © 2018 This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.