  Microbial spoilage of pasteurized fluid milk is typically due to either ( 1) postpasteurization contamination ( PPC) with psychrotolerant gram-negative bacteria ( predominantly Pseudomonas<pathogen>) or ( 2) growth of psychrotolerant sporeformers ( e.g. , Paenibacillus<pathogen>) that have the ability to survive pasteurization when present as spores in raw milk , and to subsequently grow at refrigeration temperatures. While fluid milk quality has improved over the last several decades , continued reduction of PPC is hampered by the lack of rapid , sensitive , and specific methods that allow for detection of PPC in fluid milk , with fluid milk processors still often using time-consuming methods ( e.g. , Moseley keeping quality test). The goal of this project was to utilize a set of commercial fluid milk samples that are characterized by a mixture of samples with PPC due to psychrotolerant gram-negative bacteria and samples with presence and growth of psychrotolerant sporeforming bacteria to evaluate different approaches for rapid detection of PPC. Comprehensive microbiological shelf-life characterization of 105 pasteurized fluid milk samples obtained from 20 dairy processing plants showed that 60/105 samples reached bacterial counts > 20,000 cfu/mL over the shelf-life due to PPC with gram-negative bacteria. Among these 60 samples with evidence of gram-negative PPC spoilage over the shelf-life , 100 % ( 60/60) showed evidence of contamination with noncoliform , non-Enterobacteriaceae ( EB) gram-negative bacteria ( e.g. , Pseudomonas) , 20 % ( 12/60) showed evidence of contamination with coliforms , and 7 % ( 4/60) showed evidence of contamination with noncoliform EB. Among the remaining 45 samples , 28 showed levels of gram-positive bacteria above 20,000 cfu/mL and the remaining 17 samples did not exceed 20,000 cfu/mL over the shelf-life. Evaluation of the same set of 105 samples using 6 different approaches ( all possible combinations of 2 different enrichment protocols ( 13 °C or 21 °C for 18 h) and 3 different plating media ( crystal violet tetrazolium agar , EB Petrifilm ( 3M , St. Paul , MN) , and Coliform Petrifilm)) showed that enrichment at 21 °C for 18 h , followed by plating on crystal violet tetrazolium agar provided for the most sensitive , accelerated detection of samples that reached > 20,000 cfu/mL due to PPC with psychrotolerant gram-negatives ( 70 % sensitivity). These results show that tests still required and traditionally used in the dairy industry ( e.g. , coliform testing) are not suitable for monitoring for PPC. Rather , approaches that allow for detection of all gram-negative bacteria are essential for improved detection of PPC in fluid milk.