  Circannual rhythm regulates annual timing of reproduction in spotted munia , with sex-differences in its relationship with the external photoperiod environment. Interestingly , munia show an atypical photosensitivity and exhibit gonadal maturation when acutely exposed to an unnatural short photoperiod ( e.g. 3 h light per day; i.e. a long scotoperiod). The proximate mechanisms regulating scotoperiod-induced hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal ( HPG) activation are unclear. Since thyroid hormone signalling plays a central role in photoperiodic induction , we hypothesized the involvement of similar mechanism , i.e. alterations in hypothalamic deiodinases , under long scotoperiod-induced HPG activation. To test this , several endpoints of cellular and molecular correlates were assayed in male and female munias after 1- and 4-weeks of exposure to 3L: 21D , with controls on 21L: 3D. We measured the hypothalamic expression of mRNA and protein of light-sensitive ( neuropsin , OPN5) and reproductive ( VIP , NPY , GnRH , GnIH) neuropeptides by qPCR and immunohistochemistry , respectively. In addition , we also measured mRNA expression of types 2 ( DIO2) and 3 ( DIO3) deiodinases which regulate T3-mediated GnRH release and gonadal maturation in photoperiodic species. The qPCR and immunohistochemistry results were consistent. Higher OPN5 levels under 21L: 3D than under 3L: 21D suggested its role in sensing the length of the light period. Similarly , low VIP and high NPY expression under 3L: 21D than under 21L: 3D were consistent with their roles as cellular correlates of photic and non-photic environment , respectively. High GnRH-I/ low GnIH levels and gonadal recrudescence under 3L: 21D , and an inverse pattern under 21L: 3D , confirmed the scotostimulation of HPG axis in spotted munia. However , DIO2 and DIO3 mRNA levels did not differ between two scotoperiods , contrary to their reciprocal expression pattern found during long-day photostimulation. We demonstrate for the first time sex-dependent scotostimulation of reproductive neural pathways , and suggest the involvement of molecules other than hypothalamic deiodinases in the regulation of gonad development cycle in ` non-photoperiodic ' seasonally breeding vertebrates. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.