  In France , surgery for lumbar disc herniation is now being done in the outpatient ambulatory setting at select facilities. However , surgery for the cervical spine in this setting is controversial because of the dangers of neck hematoma. We wanted to share our experience with performing ambulatory anterior cervical discectomy in 30 patients at our facility. Since 2014 , 30 patients ( 16 men , 14 women; mean age of 47.2 years) with cervical radiculopathy due to single-level cervical disc disease ( 19 at C5-C6 and 11 at C6-C7) were operated at our ambulatory surgery center. After anterior cervical discectomy , cervical disc replacement was performed in 13 patients and fusion in 17 patients. The mean operative time was 38minutes and the mean duration of postoperative monitoring was 7hours 30minutes. The patients stayed at the healthcare facility for an average of 10hours 10minutes. One female patient ( 3 %) was transferred to a standard hospital unit due to a neurological deficit requiring surgical revision with no cause identified. Two patients ( 7 %) were rehospitalized on Day 1 due to dysphagia that resolved spontaneously. Thus the `` ambulatory success rate '' was 90 % ( 27/30). There were no other complications and the overall satisfaction rate was excellent ( 9.6/ 10). Outpatient anterior cervical discectomy is now widely performed in the United States. Ours is the first study of French patients undergoing this procedure. The complication rate was very low ( < 2 %) and even lower than patients treated in an inpatient hospital setting in comparative studies. Note that our patients were carefully selected for outpatient surgery as certain risk factors for complications have previously been identified ( age , 3 + levels , comorbidities/ ASA > 2). No deaths in the first 30 days postoperative have been reported in the literature. Wound hematoma leading to airway compromise is rare in the ambulatory setting ( 0.2 %). The few cases that occurred were detected early and the hematoma drained before the patient was discharged. Dysphagia<symptom> is actually the most common complication ( 8 % to 30 %). Cervical spine surgery can be performed in an ambulatory surgery center in carefully selected patients. Our criteria are patients less than 65 years of age , single-level disease , ASA < 2 , and standard cervical morphology. The complication and readmission rates are low. Careful hemostasis combined with close postoperative monitoring for at least 6hours helps to reduce the risk of neck hematoma. Prevention of postoperative dysphagia<symptom> must be a focus of the care provided.