  Circulating lycopene level is negatively associated with the prevalence of cardiovascular disease , cancers ( prostate and breast) , type 2 diabetes mellitus , and aging. Traditionally , lycopene is measured in biological specimens by a combination of high-performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC) and mass spectrometry methods. Moreover , as we recently reported , tissue/cell lycopene depositions can be observed by the immunohistochemistry method with a newly developed monoclonal antibody ( mAb) against lycopene. A main objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of a new noninvasive immunofluorescence ( IF) lycopene quantification skin test with mAbs against lycopene versus HPLC lycopene assay of serum lycopene in volunteers subjected to lycopene supplementation which represents a novel approach to lycopene measurement methodology. For this purpose , 32 healthy volunteers , 30-40 years old , were supplemented with lycopene ( n = 15) or placebo ( n = 17) for a period of 4 weeks. It was found that lycopene supplementation leads to a significant increase in serum lycopene concentration after 2 and 4 weeks by 2.6- and 3.4-fold over control , respectively. This was accompanied by a concordant step-wise rise in IF staining of skin corneocytes and sebum , quantifiable by arbitrary IF scores. Placebo supplementation did not affect serum lycopene values or intensity of IF staining of the skin samples. There was 86.6 % agreement in paired HPLC/IF variants for the intermediate time point and 80.0 % agreement at the end of the study in the lycopene group. Intraclass correlation between paired values in this group was +0.49 for the 2-week time point and +0.63 for the end point. These results indicate that the new antibody-based skin assay can be used for rapid detection of lycopene deficiencies. Moreover , the noninvasive nature of the skin swab test would allow using it to monitor , optimize , and personalize lycopene supplementation protocol of risk groups in the general population.