  Renal cell carcinomas ( RCCs) are rare in young patients. Knowledge of their pathologic and molecular spectrum remains limited , and no prospective studies have been performed to date in this population. This study analyzes patients diagnosed with RCC who were prospectively enrolled in the AREN03B2 Children 's Oncology Group ( COG). The objective was to classify these tumors with the aid of focused genetic testing and to characterize their features. All tumors registered as RCC by central review were retrospectively re-reviewed and underwent additional ancillary studies. Tumors were classified according to the 2016 World Health Organization classification system when possible. In total , 212 tumors were identified , and these were classified as microphthalmia transcription factor ( MiT) translocation RCC ( MiT-RCC) ( 41.5 %) , papillary RCC ( 16.5 %) , renal medullary carcinoma ( 12.3 %) , chromophobe RCC ( 6.6 %) , clear cell RCC ( 3.3 %) , fumarate hydratase-deficient RCC ( 1.4 %) , and succinate dehydrogenase-deficient RCC ( 0.5 %). Other subtypes included tuberous sclerosis-associated RCC ( 4.2 %) , anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK)- rearranged RCC ( 3.8 %) , thyroid-like RCC ( 1.4 %) , myoepithelial carcinoma ( 0.9 %) , and unclassified ( 7.5 %). MiT-RCCs were classified as either transcription factor E3 ( TFE3) ( 93.2 %) or EB ( TFEB) ( 6.8 %) translocations , and characterization of fusion partners was possible in most tumors. The current study delineates the frequency of distinct RCC subtypes in a large prospective series of young patients and contributes knowledge to the diagnostic , clinical , and genetic features of MiT-RCC , the most common subtype among this age group. The identification of rare subtypes expands the spectrum of RCC in young patients , supporting the need for a thorough diagnostic workup. These studies may aid in the introduction of specific therapies for different RCC subtypes in the future. Cancer 2018. © 2018 American Cancer Society.