  Agents are being developed for treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis ( EoE). However , it is not clear what outcome measures would best determine the efficacy and safety of these agents in clinical trials. We performed a systematic review of outcomes used in randomized placebo-controlled trials of EoE and we estimate the placebo response and rates of remission. We searched MEDLINE , Embase , CENTRAL , ClinicalTrials.gov , and the EU Clinical Trials Register from inception through February 20 , 2018 for randomized controlled trials of pharmacologic therapies for EoE. Efficacy outcome definitions , measurement tools , and the proportion of patients responding to placebo were collected and stratified by based on histologic , endoscopic , and patient-reported outcomes. We analyzed data from 22 placebo-controlled trials , comprising 1112 patients with EoE. Ten additional active registered trials were identified. Most published trials evaluated topical corticosteroid therapy ( 13/22 , 59.1 %). Histologic outcomes measuring eosinophil density and patient-reported outcomes were reported in 21/22 published trials ( 95.5 %). No consistently applied definitions of histologic or patient-reported response or remission were identified. Endoscopic outcomes were described in 60 % ( 12/20) of published trials. The EoE Endoscopic Reference Score is the most commonly applied tool for describing changes in endoscopic appearance. The median histologic response to placebo was 3.7 % ( range 0 % -31.6 %) and the median rate of remission in patients given placebo was 0.0 % ( range 0 % -11.0 %). The median patient-reported response to placebo was 14.4 % ( range 8.6 % -77.8 %) and rate of remission in patients given placebo was 26.2 % ( range 13.2 % -35.7 %). In a systematic review of the literature , we found that no standardized definitions of histologic , endoscopic , or patient-reported outcomes are used to determine whether pharmacologic agents produce a response or remission in patients with EoE. A core outcome set is needed to reduce heterogeneity in outcome reporting and facilitate trial interpretation and comparison of results from trials.