  A survey was created by NRG to assess a medical physicists ' percent full time equivalent ( FTE<pathogen>) contribution to multi-institutional clinical trials. A 2012 American Society for Radiation Oncology report , `` Safety Is No Accident , '' quantified medical physics staffing contributions in FTE<pathogen> factors for clinical departments. No quantification of FTE<pathogen> effort associated with clinical trials was included. To address this lack of information , the NRG Medical Physics Subcommittee decided to obtain manpower data from the medical physics community to quantify the amount of time medical physicists spent supporting clinical trials. A survey , consisting of 16 questions , was designed to obtain information regarding physicists ' time spent supporting clinical trials. The survey was distributed to medical physicists at 1996 radiation therapy institutions included on the membership rosters of the 5 National Clinical Trials Network clinical trial groups. Of the 451 institutions who responded , 50 % ( 226) reported currently participating in radiation therapy trials. On average , the designated physicist at each institution spent 2.4 hours ( standard deviation ( SD) , 5.5) per week supervising or interacting with clinical trial staff. On average , 1.2 hours ( SD , 3.1) , 1.8 hours ( SD , 3.9) , and 0.6 hours ( SD , 1.1) per week were spent on trial patient simulations , treatment plan reviews , and maintaining a Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine server , respectively. For all trial credentialing activities , physicists spent an average of 32 hours ( SD , 57.2) yearly. Reading protocols and supporting dosimetrists , clinicians , and therapists took an average of 2.1 hours ( SD , 3.4) per week. Physicists also attended clinical trial meetings , on average , 1.2 hours ( SD , 1.9) per month. On average , physicist spent a nontrivial total of 9 hours per week ( 0.21 FTE<pathogen>) supporting an average of 10 active clinical trials. This time commitment indicates the complexity of radiation therapy clinical trials and should be taken into account when staffing radiation therapy institutions.