  Ligand-assisted displacement chromatography ( LAD) has been developed for separating rare earth elements since the 1950 's. Isotachic displacement trains , which are similar to those in conventional displacement chromatography , were reported previously. However , there has been no general theory delineating the conditions required to form constant-pattern displacement trains for non-ideal systems ( or systems with significant mass transfer resistance). The constant-pattern state is critical for obtaining pure products with high yield and high productivity. Without theoretical guidance , all the previous studies found the constant-pattern state by experimental trial and error , which was time consuming and costly. In this study , an efficient rate model and simulations of LAD were developed and verified with experimental data for non-ideal systems. Verified simulations were used to understand the mechanisms of separations and the transition from the transient state to the constant-pattern state. The key dimensionless factors affecting the transition for binary non-ideal systems were identified. Dimensionless groups were developed to reduce the number of variables. Simulations were used to find the transition points fromthe transient state to the constant-pattern state , which indicates the minimum dimensionless column lengths in the multi-parameter space. Strategic combination of the key dimensionless groups allows the minimum dimensionless column lengths to correlate with the combined groups in a two-dimensional diagram ( or a map). The correlation curve divides the multi-dimensional space into the transient region and the constant-pattern region. The correlation was further verified with five sets of experiments. It can be used to find , without process simulations or experiments , the minimum column lengths for developing constant-pattern isotachic trains for non-ideal systems , which is useful for designing efficient ligand-assisted displacement chromatography at any scale.