  This study aimed to analyze the psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the Voice Activity and Participation Profile ( SVAPP) questionnaire. A randomized , cross-sectional sampling strategy with controls was used. Two samples with a total of 169 participants were analyzed , specifically 61 men ( mean age 37.02) and 108 women ( mean age 37.78). Of these participants , 112 were patients and 57 were controls. The instrument was submitted to reliability ( internal consistency and corrected item-total correlations) and reproducibility analyses. Validation assessment was based on the construct validity , convergent validity , discriminant validity , and concurrent validity. The global internal consistency was excellent ( Cronbach 's α = 0.976) , corrected item-total correlations were satisfactory and ranged 0.63-0.89 , and factor loadings were above 0.50. The different subscales showed good internal consistency ( alpha coefficients ranged 0.830-0.956) and test-retest values were consistently associated. The exploratory factor analysis evidenced a strongly defined five factors internal structure , with factors loadings ranging 0.51-0.86. Convergent validity demonstrated that all subscales and scores were very strongly correlated ( Pearson r above 0.735) and significantly associated. The discriminant validity analysis showed that SVAPP had good specificity to distinguish dysphonic from healthy voice subjects. Concurrent validity with Voice Handicap Index Spanish version ( SVHI) showed very strong correlations between total scores , and between SVHI total score and SVAPP Daily and Social Communication subscales; correlations between both tests subscales were strong; only between SVAPP Work and SVHI Physical sections correlations were moderate. The findings of the present study demonstrated evidence for the SVAPP questionnaire reliability and validity , and provided insightful implications of voice disorders on Spanish patients ' quality of life. However , further investigations are required.