  Coating materials applied for intraosseous implants must be optimized to stimulate osseointegration. Osseointegration is a temporal and spatial physiological process that not only requires interactions between osteogenesis and angiogenesis but also necessitates a favorable immune microenvironment. It is now well-documented that hierarchical nano-micro surface structures promote the long-term stability of implants , the interactions between nano-micro structure and the immune response are largely unknown. Here , we report the effects of microporous titanium ( Ti) surfaces coated with nano-hydroxyapatite ( HA) produced by micro-arc oxidation and steam-hydrothermal treatment ( SHT) on multiple cell behavior and osseointegration. By altering the processing time of SHT it was possible to shift HA structures from nano-particles to nano-rods on the microporous Ti surfaces. Ti surfaces coated with HA nano-particles were found to modulate the inflammatory response resulting in an osteoimmune microenvironment more favorable for osteo-/ angio-genesis , most likely via the activation of certain key signaling pathways ( TGF-β , OPG/RANKL , and VEGF). By contrast , Ti surfaces coated with nano-rod shaped HA particles had a negative impact on osteo-/ angio-genesis and osteoimmunomodulation. In vivo results further demonstrated that Ti implant surfaces decorated with HA nano-particles can stimulate new bone formation and osseointegration with enhanced interaction between osteocytes and implant surfaces. This study demonstrated that Ti implants with micro-surfaces coated with nano-particle shaped HA have a positive impact on osseointegration. Osteo-/ angio-genesis are of importance during osteointegration of the implants. Recent advances unravel that immune response of macrophages and its manipulated osteoimmunomodulation also exerts a pivotal role to determine the fate of the implant. Surface nano-micro modification has evidenced to be efficient to influence osteogenesis , however , little is known links nano-microstructured surface to immune response , as well the osteoimmunomodulation. This study demonstrates that the nano-particles decorated micro-surface , compared with the nano-rods decorated micro-surface enables osteogenesis and angiogenesis concurrently that has not been investigated previously. This study also unravels that the immune response of macrophages can be manipulated by the nano-micro surface , especially the nano-dimension matters , leading to a differential effect on osteointegration. The additional knowledge obtained from this study may provide foundation and reference for future design of the coating materials for implantable materials.