  We study the influence of thermal fluctuations on the buckling behavior of thin elastic capsules with spherical rest shape. Above a critical uniform pressure , an elastic capsule becomes mechanically unstable and spontaneously buckles into a shape with an axisymmetric dimple. Thermal fluctuations affect the buckling instability by two mechanisms. On the one hand , thermal fluctuations can renormalize the capsule 's elastic properties and its pressure because of anharmonic couplings between normal displacement modes of different wavelengths. This effectively lowers its critical buckling pressure ( Košmrlj and Nelson , Phys. Rev. X 7 , 011002 ( 2017) 2160-330810.1103/ PhysRevX .7.011002). On the other hand , buckled shapes are energetically favorable already at pressures below the classical buckling pressure. At these pressures , however , buckling requires to overcome an energy barrier , which only vanishes at the critical buckling pressure. In the presence of thermal fluctuations , the capsule can spontaneously overcome an energy barrier of the order of the thermal energy by thermal activation already at pressures below the critical buckling pressure. We revisit parameter renormalization by thermal fluctuations and formulate a buckling criterion based on scale-dependent renormalized parameters to obtain a temperature-dependent critical buckling pressure. Then we quantify the pressure-dependent energy barrier for buckling below the critical buckling pressure using numerical energy minimization and analytical arguments. This allows us to obtain the temperature-dependent critical pressure for buckling by thermal activation over this energy barrier. Remarkably , both parameter renormalization and thermal activation lead to the same parameter dependence of the critical buckling pressure on temperature , capsule radius and thickness , and Young 's modulus. Finally , we study the combined effect of parameter renormalization and thermal activation by using renormalized parameters for the energy barrier in thermal activation to obtain our final result for the temperature-dependent critical pressure , which is significantly below the results if only parameter renormalization or only thermal activation is considered.