  The prevalence of malignant pleural effusion<symptom> is increasing worldwide , but prognostic biomarkers to plan treatment and to understand the underlying mechanisms of disease progression remain unidentified. The PROMISE study was designed with the objectives to discover , validate , and prospectively assess biomarkers of survival and pleurodesis response in malignant pleural effusion<symptom> and build a score that predicts survival. In this multicohort study , we used five separate and independent datasets from randomised controlled trials to investigate potential biomarkers of survival and pleurodesis. Mass spectrometry-based discovery was used to investigate pleural fluid samples for differential protein expression in patients from the discovery group with different survival and pleurodesis outcomes. Clinical , radiological , and biological variables were entered into least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression to build a model that predicts 3-month mortality. We evaluated the model using internal and external validation. 17 biomarker candidates of survival and seven of pleurodesis were identified in the discovery dataset. Three independent datasets ( n = 502) were used for biomarker validation. All pleurodesis biomarkers failed , and gelsolin , macrophage migration inhibitory factor , versican , and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 ( TIMP1) emerged as accurate predictors of survival. Eight variables ( haemoglobin , C-reactive protein , white blood cell count , Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status , cancer type , pleural fluid TIMP1 concentrations , and previous chemotherapy or radiotherapy) were validated and used to develop a survival score. Internal validation with bootstrap resampling and external validation with 162 patients from two independent datasets showed good discrimination ( C statistic values of 0 · 78 ( 95 % CI 0 · 72-0 · 83) for internal validation and 0 · 89 ( 0 · 84-0 · 93) for external validation of the clinical PROMISE score). To our knowledge , the PROMISE score is the first prospectively validated prognostic model for malignant pleural effusion<symptom> that combines biological and clinical parameters to accurately estimate 3-month mortality. It is a robust , clinically relevant prognostic score that can be applied immediately , provide important information on patient prognosis , and guide the selection of appropriate management strategies. European Respiratory Society , Medical Research Funding-University of Oxford , Slater & Gordon Research Fund , and Oxfordshire Health Services Research Committee Research Grants.