  Glutamatergic synaptic inputs to corticotrophin-releasing hormone ( CRH) secreting neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus ( PVN) are required for stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis. These synapses also undergo stress-induced plasticity , thereby influencing HPA axis stress adaptation. By using patch clamp electrophysiology , we show that , in adult non-stressed mice , action potentials at these glutamatergic afferents elicit multiquantal transmission to the postsynaptic PVN-CRH neurons ( i.e. synaptic multiplicity). Mechanistically , synaptic multiplicity results from multivesicular release at common synaptic sites , which is facilitated upon elevation of release probability , effectively increasing the upper limit of the dynamic range of synaptic transmission. Following chronic variable stress , functional PVN glutamate synapse number increases , although its synaptic multiplicity paradoxically decreases. These two contrasting synaptic changes can , respectively , increase the baseline excitatory drive while also limiting the capacity for potentiation , and may preferentially increase the baseline excitatory drive onto PVN-CRH neurons. The activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis relies on excitation of neuroendocrine neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus ( PVN) that secrete corticotrophin-releasing hormone ( CRH). Afferent glutamate synapses onto these PVN-CRH neurons convey critical excitatory inputs during stress , and also undergo stress-induced plasticity , highlighting their roles in both stress activation and adaptation of the HPA axis. In the present study , using whole-cell patch clamp recordings from PVN-CRH neurons in brain slices from adult mice , we found that the amplitude of action potential-dependent spontaneous EPSCs ( sEPSCs) was larger than that of action potential independent miniature EPSCs ( mEPSCs) , suggesting that action potentials at individual axons recruited multiquantal transmission onto the same postsynaptic neurons ( i.e. synaptic multiplicity). The large , putative multiquantal sEPSCs had fast rise times similar to mEPSCs , and were abolished by replacing extracellular Ca