  Animal welfare , conservation , and stress assessment are all critical components of species survival. As organisms experience stressors , they accumulate physiologic dysregulation , leading to multiple negative health outcomes. This brief review suggests measuring the degree of stress-induced damage , known as allostatic load , and then using allostatic load to evaluate changes implemented to improve animal welfare and conservation efforts. Over the past two decades , human clinical research has developed multiple allostatic load indices constructed from composites of neuroendocrine , cardiovascular , metabolic , and immune biomarkers. These indices are designed to estimate allostatic load in hopes of ameliorating or even negating damaging effects of stress. Among humans , allostatic load is associated with a variety of factors such as age , sex , stressful experiences , personality , social position , and early life history. Despite conservation of stress responses throughout mammalian species , reported allostatic load indices for animals are rare. Because many zoo researchers and field scientists already collect data on multiple biomarkers , constructing allostatic load indices may be a relatively affordable , easily implemented , and powerful tool for assessing relative risks of morbidity and mortality within wildlife. As an example , in a study among zoo-housed gorillas , an allostatic load index constructed using seven biomarkers was associated significantly with age , sex , stressful experiences , rearing history , markers of poor health , and mortality risk. Such results evidence that allostatic load is as applicable to animal populations as it is to humans. By using allostatic load as a predictive tool , human caretakers will be better informed of individuals at greatest risk for health declines. Most importantly , allostatic load may provide earlier opportunity for preemptive care while contributing a transformational tool to animal welfare research. Additionally , allostatic load may be compared between individuals and groups within the same population and allow comparisons of health between and across populations , consequently informing habitat and population protection efforts.