  To explore the network pharmacological mechanisms of four anti-vitiligo Uyghur medicines based on the Phlegmatic temperament theory. First , The anti-vitiligo Uyghur medicine formulas based on Phlegmatic temperament theory were collected. The pharmacokinetic characteristic of main compounds in four anti-vitiligo Uyghur medicines were obtained by using admetSAR. The targets of active compounds were predicted via bSDTNBI ( balanced substructure-drug-target network-based inference model) method. Then , biological process ( BP) and molecular function ( MF) enrichment analysis of targets were analysed via DAVID database. Constructing anti-vitiligo Uyghur medicine formula-Uyghur medicines network model ( FMI network) and Uyghur medicines-active compounds-targets-BP-Hilit network model ( MCTBHI network) , we utilized closeness centrality to analyse key Uyghur medicines , active compounds , key targets as well as Hilit. Finally , the in vitro melanin production model of C57BL/6 mice was used to verify the ability of the active compounds to improve melanogenesis. The results showed that Psoralea corylifolia , Vernonia anthelmintica , Syzygium aromaticum and Anacyclus pyrethrum were the key Uyghur medicines in the FMI network. There were 22 active compounds with a relatively higher bioavailability interacted with 58 therapeutic targets. These active compounds were mainly composed of coumarins and flavonoids. In the MCTBHI network , the MF of 58 therapeutic targets was related to steroid hormone receptor activity , heme binding and enzyme binding functhon. Classification of the Hilit according to the BP of 58 therapeutic targets , the first place was the blood , followed by the lymph , the cerebrospinal fluid and digestive juice. It was found that the expression of some targets located in the skin was closed to the heart<symptom> muscle , lymph node , spleen , cerebral cortex and so on , which were the main places for Hilit. In particular , ESR1 , PTGS2 , PPARA , PPARG , PTGS1 and CA2 were regulated by the flavonoids ( kaempferide and isorhamnetin). The in vitro melanin production model showed that kaempferide and isorhamnetin could promote the melanin production in C57BL/6 mice ear skin. Based on admetSAR and bSDTNBI , we used network pharmacological method to construct a systematic means of studying anti-vitiligo Uyghur medicines , providing clues for the further study of the modern molecular mechanisms of Phlegmatic temperament.