  Surgery is indicated in De Quervain 's tenosynovitis only after failure of medical treatment , often due to individual anatomical variants. We use Le Viet 's technique , to avoid tendon instability. The aim of the present study was to evaluate long-term results , with the hypothesis that this surgical technique is reliable , providing lasting results. All patients operated on between 1993 and 2015 were included , and results were assessed by telephone questionnaire at a minimum 1 year 's follow-up. Surgical technique was systematically as described by Le Viet , with subcutaneous fixation of the retinaculum flap. Any anatomical variants were specified. In 26 cases , a concomitant pathology was treated in the same step. In addition to demographic data , the study looked for: pain on VAS , functional impairment , tendon dislocation , and satisfaction. There were no intra- or immediate post-operative complications. Of the 89 patients , 74 ( 80 wrists) were successfully recontacted: 68 women and 6 men , with a mean age of 48.5 years ( range , 19-71 years). The 15 patients lost to follow-up showed initial progression comparable to the rest of the population. A supernumerary septum was found in 50 cases , and an abductor pollicis longus tendon with multiple slips in 35 cases. There were no recurrences. Functional impairment was absent in 68 wrists , moderate in 8 and significant in 4 , including 3 with associated diseases. Mean VAS was 0.76 ( range , 0-10). No patients reported tendon dislocation or neuroma. Patients were very satisfied in 72 cases , satisfied in 6 , and dissatisfied in 2 cases with associated diseases. Results in the present series , with a mean follow-up of 9.5 years , were favorable , with total regression of functional impairment in 85 % of cases and a satisfaction rate of 97.5 %. There were no cases of tendon dislocation , neuroma , or recurrence. Residual problems were all related to associated diseases , whether pre-existing or with subsequent onset. Le Viet 's technique gives reliable lasting results without complications or recurrence. IV , retrospective study.