  The analysis of publications shows that diverse multiple factors can induce changes in taste sensitivity and the main irritants are the chemicals of different types. However , the study of the effect of the components of dental structural materials on the state of lingual mucosa , in particular , taste sensors , has not been fully elucidated to date. The purpose of the paper was the study of the effect of monomer of the `` Ftoraks '' base acrylic resin on the state of the rats ' lingual mucosa within 2-4 weeks after its impact. The previous paper ( 5) presents the findings of the study on the impact of the monomer of the `` Ftoraks '' base acrylic resin on the state of the rats ' lingual mucosa in the early period ( 1 to 7 days) and its subsequent regeneration. The studies have found that the greatest changes in the lingual mucosa occur on day 3 and 7 after the application of monomer , and are of erosive-inflammatory origin. Regeneration of the lingual epithelium is delayed. The studies confirm that the monomer of acrylic resin causes a number of pathological changes in the mucous membrane and muscles of the rat tongue , the nature of which varies depending on the duration of its impact. On day 14 in the lingual mucosa the destructive processes are significantly delayed , substituting for the sclerotic processes in the proper plate and atrophic processes , observed , first of all , in the papillae of the tongue. It is appropriate to assume that such changes in the papillae will lead to violation of the taste reception , first of all , in the areas of lateral surfaces of the body of the tongue and in the root area. At the same time , it should be noted that at the end of the experimental period ( on day 28 of the contact of the monomer with the lingual mucosa) , in the mucous membrane of the tongue , along with atrophic and sclerotic processes , the destructive changes and inflammatory reaction are evident. We hypothesize that this may indicate about partial recovery of taste sensitivity due to the decrease in the number of gustatory buds , taste papillae of different types and the increase in the period of their regeneration.