  Early life experiences can affect the function of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis of vertebrates , with potential fitness consequences later in life. In altricial species , for example , variation in parental behavior , e.g. brooding or feeding , can modify the activity of the HPA axis of the young by altering their exposure to noxious stimuli as the young develop in the nest. We have shown that a drop in the body temperature of eastern bluebird ( Sialia sialis) chicks , such as occurs when females are away from the nest , elevates their blood corticosterone levels. If repeated during the early days of their development , cooling bouts also reduce the chicks ' later corticosterone secretion in response to handling. Thus , variation in maternal behavior has the capacity to shape the function of the chicks ' HPA axis. To better understand how maternal absence from the nest activates the HPA axis of bluebird chicks , we experimentally mimicked the cooling that occurs when the female is away from the nest , and investigated a) the age at which the HPA axis becomes capable of responding to cooling by increasing corticosterone secretion , b) whether corticosterone secretion remains elevated throughout long periods of cooling , and c) whether fasting ( also potentially associated with maternal absence) interacts with cooling to affect corticosterone secretion. Cooling for 18 min significantly elevated circulating corticosterone levels of chicks as young as 4 days post-hatch , indicating that their HPA axis is sensitive to cooling very early in life. Corticosterone levels remained elevated throughout longer bouts of cooling. However , a 1-hr period of fasting had no effect on corticosterone secretion , regardless of whether chicks were cooled or not. Collectively , these data demonstrate that variation in maternal brooding behavior can substantially modify the corticosterone profiles of chicks during early postnatal development , and that chick temperature is likely the main driver of this.