  OBJECTIVE Catheter-associated cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF) infection remains a serious event , especially for patients in neurocritical care units. The use of external ventricular drain ( EVD) catheters impregnated with antimicrobial substances has led to a significant reduction of infection rates. This study was undertaken to compare the use of antimicrobial , silver-impregnated external lumbar drains ( si-ELDs) and conventional ELDs. METHODS Patients with an indication for ELD placement were randomized to receive either a conventional or an si-ELD catheter. Regular assessment for CSF infections and device-related complications was performed. Neurosurgeons placing the ELD rated the usability and handling of the catheter on a 6-item ordinal performance scale ( range: 1 , very bad , to 5 , very good). All microorganisms isolated in this study were tested for silver-susceptibility via a catheter-roll method. RESULTS A total of 48 patients were enrolled in the trial. The si-ELD catheters showed a nonsignificantly lower infection rate compared to conventional ones ( 4.2 % vs 16.7 % , p = 0.16). The majority of infections were caused by Staphylococcus<pathogen> species. Device-related complications occurred significantly less often with silver-impregnated-catheters than with conventional ones ( 8.3 % vs 37.5 % , p = 0.02). The usability was rated significantly better for si-ELDs ( p = 0.003). Antimicrobial susceptibility was shown for si-ELDs against various Staphylococcus<pathogen> spp. , but Candida<pathogen> parapsilosis<pathogen> and Escherichia<pathogen> coli<pathogen> were not affected by this antimicrobial agent. CONCLUSIONS Silver-impregnated ELD catheters , which could potentially reduce the number of CSF infections , show significantly better properties in regard to handling and fewer device-related complications. Whether they are superior to antibiotic-impregnated catheters or a clinical regimen involving antibiotic prophylaxis remains to be proven. Clinical trial registration no.: DRKS00013513 ( Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien).