  Reusable , publicly available data is a pillar of open science and rapid advancement of cancer imaging research. Sharing data from completed research studies not only saves research dollars required to collect data , but also helps insure that studies are both replicable and reproducible. The Cancer Imaging Archive ( TCIA) is a global shared repository for imaging data related to cancer. Insuring the consistency , scientific utility , and anonymity of data stored in TCIA is of utmost importance. As the rate of submission to TCIA has been increasing , both in volume and complexity of DICOM objects stored , the process of curation of collections has become a bottleneck in acquisition of data. In order to increase the rate of curation of image sets , improve the quality of the curation , and better track the provenance of changes made to submitted DICOM image sets , a custom set of tools was developed , using novel methods for the analysis of DICOM data sets. These tools are written in the programming language perl , use the open-source database PostgreSQL , make use of the perl DICOM routines in the open-source package Posda , and incorporate DICOM diagnostic tools from other open-source packages , such as dicom3tools. These tools are referred to as the `` Posda Tools. '' The Posda Tools are open source and available via git at https://github.com/UAMS-DBMI/PosdaTools. In this paper , we briefly describe the Posda Tools and discuss the novel methods employed by these tools to facilitate rapid analysis of DICOM data , including the following: ( 1) use a database schema which is more permissive , and differently normalized from traditional DICOM databases; ( 2) perform integrity checks automatically on a bulk basis; ( 3) apply revisions to DICOM datasets on an bulk basis , either through a web-based interface or via command line executable perl scripts; ( 4) all such edits are tracked in a revision tracker and may be rolled back; ( 5) a UI is provided to inspect the results of such edits , to verify that they are what was intended; ( 6) identification of DICOM Studies , Series , and SOP instances using `` nicknames '' which are persistent and have well-defined scope to make expression of reported DICOM errors easier to manage; and ( 7) rapidly identify potential duplicate DICOM datasets by pixel data is provided; this can be used , e.g. , to identify submission subjects which may relate to the same individual , without identifying the individual.