  The study investigated whether methionine supply during late pregnancy is associated with liver mammalian target of rapamycin ( MTOR) pathway phosphorylation , plasma biomarkers , and growth in heifer calves born to cows fed a control diet ( CON) or the control diet plus ethylcellulose rumen-protected methionine ( MET; 0.09 % of dry matter intake) for the last 28 d prepartum. Calves were fed and managed similarly during the first 56 d of age. Plasma was harvested at birth and 2 , 7 , 21 , 42 , and 50 d of age and was used for biomarker profiling. Liver biopsies were harvested at 4 , 14 , 28 , and 50 d of age and used for protein expression. Body<symptom> weight , hip height , hip width , wither height , body length , rectal temperature , fecal score , and respiratory score were measured weekly. Starter intake was measured daily , and average daily gain was calculated during the first 8 wk of age. During the first 7 wk of age , compared with calves in the CON group , calves in the MET group had greater body<symptom> weight , hip height , wither height , and average daily gain despite similar daily starter intake. Concentration of methionine in plasma was lower at birth but increased markedly at 2 and 7 d of age in MET calves. Plasma insulin , glucose , free fatty acids , and hydroxybutyrate did not differ. A greater ratio of phosphorylated α-serine/threonine kinase ( AKT): total AKT protein expression was detected in MET calves , namely due to differences at 4 d of age. The phosphorylated MTOR: total MTOR ratio also was greater in MET calves due to differences at 28 and 50 d ( 8 d postweaning). The decrease in phosphorylated MTOR: total MTOR between 14 and 28 d in CON calves agreed with the increase in phosphorylated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1 ( EIF4EBP1): total EIF4EBP1 ratio during the same time frame. The overall expression of phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1 ( RPS6KB1): total RPS6KB1 and phosphorylated eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2 ( EEF2): total EEF2 was lower in MET calves. Regardless of methionine supply prepartum , there was an 11-fold temporal decrease from 4 to 50 d in phosphorylated AKT: total AKT. Similarly , regardless of methionine supply , there were overall decreases in phosphorylation ratios of AKT , MTOR , RPS6KB1 , and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A ( EIF2A) over time. Data provide evidence of a positive effect of methionine supply during the last month of pregnancy on rates of growth during the first 7 wk of age. Phosphorylation status of some components of the MTOR pathway in neonatal calf liver also was associated with greater maternal supply of methionine. Thus , the data suggest that molecular mechanisms in the liver might be programmed by supply of methionine during late pregnancy. The exact mechanisms coordinating the observed responses remain to be determined.