  The thermic effect of food ( TEF) refers to the increase of the metabolic rate and body temperature in response to a single meal. To date , most of the studies have focused to determine the TEF in terms of energy expenditure , but little is known about which is the response in terms of skin temperature. The aim of this study was to analyze whether the thermic effect of food ( TEF) on the skin temperature with a standardized and individualized liquid meal test is different in young adult men than in young adult women. A total of 104 young adults ( 36 men and 68 women , age: 18-25 years old) consumed a standardized and individualized liquid meal ( energy intake: 50 % of measured basal metabolic rate , 50 % carbohydrates , 35 % fat , 15 % protein). The skin temperature was measured by means of 17 iButtons during 3 h and 20 min. The mean , proximal , distal , and supraclavicular skin temperature , as well as the peripheral gradient , were determined as a proxy of a peripheral vasoconstriction. The participants reported the thermal sensation of the whole body , clavicular , feet , and hands zones. The body composition was measured by dual X-ray absorptiometry. The overall , mean , proximal , and supraclavicular skin temperature significantly increased after the meal intake ( all P < 0.05 vs. the baseline temperature). There was a postprandial peripheral vasoconstriction right after the meal intake and over the first hour and a peripheral vasodilatation during the second and third hour. Women had a higher increase in all skin temperature parameters in comparison to men ( all , P < 0.05) , whereas there were no sex differences in the proximal skin temperature ( P = 0.279). The pattern of thermal sensation was similar between sexes , but women always felt colder than men. All of the results persisted after adjusting the analyses for body composition or menstrual cycle. A standardized and individualized liquid meal test increases the skin temperature in young adults , being the thermic effect higher in women than in men.