  During bone drilling , the heat generated by friction depends directly on bone quality and surgical parameters. Excessive bone temperatures may cause thermal necrosis<symptom> around the pilot hole , weaken the purchase of inserted screws , and in turn reduce the stability of screw fixation. A few studies have addressed the key parameters of drilling , such as the rotation speed of the drill-bit , feed force ( axial force) , feed rate , tool type , and tip geometry of drill-bits. Nevertheless , in the literature , information on the relationship between bone quality and thermally affected regions is still lacking. This study employed a three-dimensional dynamic elastoplastic finite element model to evaluate the influence of surgical parameters on the bone temperature elevation and assess the risk region of thermal necrosis<symptom> for different bone qualities as a function of drilling parameters. To ascertain the heat generation rate and the high-risk region of thermal necrosis<symptom> , the effects of bone quality , feed rate , feed force , and drill-bit diameter on the bone temperature elevation were explained using a three-dimensional dynamic elastoplastic finite element model , which was validated through experimental measurements. The bone temperature was affected by the drilling parameters; the maximum temperature was attained at the junction of cancellous and cortical bones. The bone temperature increased with cortical bone thickness , bone density , and drill-bit diameter , and it decreased with the drilling speed and feed force. The present model could assess the risk region of thermal necrosis<symptom> by accurately analyzing the bone temperature elevation for various bone qualities , feed forces , and feed rates. The bone temperature increased with the bone mineral density and cortical bone thickness. The highest bone temperature and maximum necrosis<symptom> region were found near the junction of cortical and cancellous bones. Increasing the drilling speed or feed force can minimize the bone temperature elevation and the risk range of thermal