  Benthic Oscillatoria sp. may form dense surface blooms especially under eutrophic and calm conditions , which poses a threat to drinking water safety because it can produce toxic and odorous metabolites. This is the first study to investigate the effect of the conventional coagulant polyaluminium ferric chloride ( PAFC) on removal of Oscillatoria sp. , and the behavior of Oscillatoria sp. cells in sludges formed from different dosages of PAFC ( control , optimum , and overdose system) during storage was also studied. Oscillatoria sp. cells can be removed efficiently by coagulation of PAFC. The adverse environmental stresses of sludge , such as lack of light and anoxic environment , decrease cell viability and induce the increase of superoxide dismutase activity ( SOD) and malondialdehyde content ( MDA) in Oscillatoria sp. cells during the first 4 days. Because Oscillatoria sp. can adapt to the low-light and hypoxic circumstances in sludge gradually , the cells regrow with prolonged storage time. Compared to planktonic Microcystis aeruginosa<pathogen> and Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii , regrowth of Oscillatoria sp. during storage may present a bigger threat , even though Microcystis aeruginosa<pathogen> and Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii cells will be damaged and release toxic compounds. Growth rates of algae<pathogen> in coagulated systems were lower than that in control system because of the restriction of flocs. It is worth noting that the chlorophyll a level was increased by a factor of 3.5 in the optimal-dose system , and worse , the overdose system increased by a factor of 6 in chlorophyll a after 8 d storage due to the benefit of higher Fe levels. Concentrations of extracellular geosmin and cylindrospermopsin also increased during storage , especially after 4 d , and varied in the following sequence for a given storage duration: control system > overdose system > optimum system. Overall , due to decrease of SOD and MDA in Oscillatoria sp. cells after 4 d storage , algae<pathogen> cells regrew rapidly , especially in overdose system. Hence , sludge should be treated within 4 d and excess PAFC dosing should be avoided.