  Doppler ultrasound has recently been suggested to identify subclinical placental functional impairment among normal sized term fetuses. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship between cerebroplacental ratio ( CPR) measured in early labor and perinatal and delivery outcomes in a cohort of uncomplicated singleton term pregnancies. This was a multicentre , prospective , observational study involving three Tertiary Centres. Low risk term pregnancies , as defined by the absence of any maternal morbidity and pregnancy complication and normal ultrasound and clinical screening of the fetal growth in the third trimester , with spontaneous onset of labor were included. Cases were submitted to Doppler measurement of the umbilical artery ( UA) and middle cerebral artery ( MCA) on admission for early labor. All measurements were performed in between uterine contractions and according to international standards. CPR was computed by dividing MCA and UA pulsatility index and converted into MoMs in order to adjust for gestation. Cases with reduced CPR MoM , as defined by CPR MoM within the lowest decile of the study population , were compared to those with normal CPR MoM. Data regarding mode of delivery and perinatal outcomes were collected and correlated to the Doppler evaluation. Doctors and midwifes involved in the clinical management of the patients were blinded to the results of the Doppler evaluation. Overall , 562 patients were included. The rate of obstetric intervention for suspected fetal distress in labor was over three times higher among cases with reduced CPR MoM ( 9/54 , 16.7 % , vs 28/508 , 5.5 % , p 0.004). Furthermore , a significantly higher rate of composite adverse perinatal outcome was found in fetuses showing CPR MoM < 10 Data on a wide cohort of low risk term pregnancies in early labor have shown that a reduced CPR is associated with a higher risk of obstetric intervention due to fetal distress and adverse perinatal outcomes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.