  With rapid economic development and continuous population growth , several important cities in China suffer serious air pollution , especially in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei economic developing area. Based on the daily air pollution index ( API) and surface meteorological elements in Beijing , Tianjin , and Shijiazhuang ( the capital of Hebei province) from 2001 to 2010 , the relationships between API and meteorological elements were analyzed. The statistical analysis focused on the relationships at seasonal and monthly average scales , on different air pollution grades and air pollution processes. The results revealed that the air pollution conditions in the 3 areas gradually improved from 2001 to 2010 , especially during summer; the worst conditions in air quality were recorded in Beijing in spring due to the influences of dust , and in Tianjin and Shijiazhuang in winter due to household heating. Meteorological elements exhibited different influences on air pollution , showing similar relationships between API in monthly averages and 4 meteorological elements ( i.e. , the average , maximum , and minimum temperatures; maximum air pressure; vapor pressure; and maximum wind speed) , whereas the relationships on a seasonal average scale demonstrated significant differences. Compared with seasonal and monthly average scales of API , the relation coefficients based on different air pollution grades were significantly lower , whereas the relationship between API and meteorological elements based on air pollution process reduced the smoothing effect due to the average processing of seasonal and monthly API and improved the accuracy of the results. Finally , statistical analysis of the distribution of pollution days in different wind directions indicated the directions of extreme and maximum wind speeds that mainly influence air pollution , representing valuable information that could support the definition of air pollution control strategies through the identification of the regions ( and the located emission sources) where the implementation of emission reduction actions should be focused. Integr Environ Assess Manag 2018; 00:000-000. © 2018 SETAC.