  Diabetic nephropathy ( DN) is by far the most common cause of end‑stage renal disease ( ESRD) in industrial countries , accounting for ~ 45 % of all new ESRD cases in the United States. Grape seed proanthocyanidin extracts ( GSPE) are powerful antioxidants , with an antioxidant ability 50‑fold greater than that of vitamin E and 20‑fold greater than that of vitamin C. The present study investigated whether GSPE can protect against streptozotocin ( STZ) induced DN and aimed to elucidate a possible mechanism. Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: Control group ( N) , diabetes mellitus group ( DM) injected with 40 mg/kg STZ , and the GSPE treatment group ( intragastric administration of 250 mg/kg/day GSPE for 16 weeks after diabetes was induced in the rats). Blood and kidney samples were collected after treatment. The renal pathological changes were determined with periodic acid‑Schiff ( PAS) staining , while the protein expression levels of glucose‑regulated protein 78 ( GRP78) , phosphorylated‑extracellular signal‑regulated kinase ( p‑ERK) and Caspase‑12 were determined by western blotting and immunohistochemical staining. Apoptosis was determined with a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick‑end labeling ( TUNEL) assay. Compared with the DM group , the GSPE group had no significant changes in the blood urea nitrogen ( BUN) level and serum creatinine ( Scr) level , but showed a significant decline in the renal index ( RI) level and 24‑h urinary albumin level ( P < 0.05). The histopathology results indicated very little pathological damage in the GSPE group. Compared with the DM group , the GSPE group had a significantly reduced number of TUNEL‑positive cells ( P < 0.05) , and the GSPE group had an obvious reduction in the protein expression of GRP78 , p‑ERK , and Caspase‑12 ( P < 0.05). In this study , the results indicated that GSPE can protect renal function and attenuate endoplasmic reticulum stress‑induced apoptosis via the Caspase‑12 pathway in STZ‑induced DN.