  To observe whether vitamin E ( Ve) and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( ω-3 FA) could prevent the fine particulate matter ( PM _ ( 2. 5))- induced cardiovascular injury and explore the potential mechanism. The SD rats were assigned randomly to 8 groups , those were control group , PM _ ( 2. 5) group , Ve treatment groups ( 3 , 10 , 30 mg/ ( kg · d)) and ω-3 FA treatment groups ( 10 , 30 and 90 mg/ ( kg · d)). The rats were pretreated with different concentration of Ve and ω-3 FA separately for 14 days , then were exposed to ambient PM _ ( 2. 5) by intratracheal instillation ( 10 mg/kg BW). All the rats were sacrificed after the last PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure , then the arterial blood , lungs and cardiac tissues were collected. The expressions of tumor necrosis<symptom> factor-α ( TNF-α) , interleukin-1β ( IL-1β) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6) in serum , bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and supernatant of cardiac tissue were detected by ELISA kits. The levels of malondialdehyde ( MDA) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD) and glutathione-peroxidase ( GSH-Px) in serum and myocardium were also measured. Compared with the severe injury of rats in PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group , the rats in Ve or ω-3 FA groups had a slighter injury in lung and cardiac tissue with the increase of Ve and ω-3 FA. Similarly , the levels of IL-1β , IL-6 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid had a decreasing trend with the increase of Ve and ω-3 FA compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure groups. Meanwhile , the expressions of TNF-α in Ve and ω-3 FA high dose groups were significantly reduced when compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group ( P < 0. 05). In addition , the MDA levels in serum were markedly decreased and the activities of SOD were significantly increased compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group ( P < 0. 05 or P < 0. 01) whereas the SOD activities were elevated only in the ω-3 FA high dose groups ( P < 0. 05). Meanwhile , the levels of IL-6 and TNF-α in serum had an obvious decrease compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group ( P < 0. 01). Similarly , compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group , the expressions of MDA were markedly decreased and the activities of SOD and GSH-Px in myocardium were significantly increased ( P < 0. 05 or P < 0. 01) in the Ve treatment group. In addition , the activities of GSH-Px was found higher only in the ω-3 FA high treatment group compared with the PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure group ( P < 0. 05). Meanwhile , the levels of IL-1β and TNF-α in cardiac tissue had an obvious decrease trend with the increase of Ve and ω-3 FA. PM _ ( 2. 5) exposure may increase inflammatory response and oxidative stress , supplementation with Ve and ω-3 FA could prevent the PM _ ( 2. 5)- induced inflammatory reaction and oxidative stress damage by increasing the activities of SOD and GSH-Px.