  Intravesical injection with onabotulinum toxin A ( BTX-A) injection can be performed in-office under local anesthesia. Rectally administered pain medication presents a potentially feasible and previously uninvestigated adjunct to office-based anesthesia protocols. The primary aim of this study was to determine whether adding a belladonna and opiate ( BO) suppository to standard lidocaine instillation resulted in reduction of bladder injection pain<symptom> during BTX-A injection procedure. This was a prospective , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study of patients undergoing BTX-A bladder injection at a single clinic. Patients 18 years or older , met clinical criteria for invasive treatment of refractory urinary<symptom> symptoms<symptom> , had previously documented post-void residual ( PVR) volumes less than 150 ml , and elected for in-office intravesical BTX-A injection were eligible to participate. Participants were randomized by computer generated block randomization to receive a BO ( belladonna alkaloid with morphine 16.2/ 7.5 mg) or placebo suppository. Suppositories were placed immediately prior to lidocaine-based anesthesia , which all participants received. All participants underwent a standardized injection procedure using the same rigid cystoscope , needle type , and injection pattern ( 20 injections total). A 0-10 numeric rating scale was used to assess pain intensity before anesthesia and suppository ( P0) , 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository ( PA) , after first 10 bladder injections ( P10) , and immediately after completion of 20 injections ( P20). Pain increase during procedure was calculated using the difference between PA and P10. PVR were measured immediately post-procedure and two weeks later. Patient satisfaction with pain control was measured using a Likert scale. Our primary outcome was change in pain level from anesthetic baseline to mid-procedure ( P10-PA). A final sample size of 26 patients was needed to have 80 % power ( alpha = 0.05) to detect a 50 % reduction in bladder injection pain<symptom> during the procedure as defined by our primary outcome. An intent-to-treat approach was used for all analyses. Twenty-six participants were enrolled and randomized with 13 in each study arm. Participants in the treatment group were slightly older than in the placebo group ( p = 0.05); there were no statistically significant differences in medical comorbidities. Median P10-PA for the placebo group and treatment group was 4 ( range 1,10) and 5 ( range 0,9) , respectively ( p = 0.94). Median P20 scores for the placebo group and treatment group were 3 ( range 0,10) and 2 ( range 0,8) , respectively ( p = 0.29). There were no significant differences in pre-injection pain scores reported at P0 and PA.. Post-procedure PVR greater than 200 ml was noted in 5 ( 38 %) of the placebo group and 3 ( 23 %) of the treatment group ( p = 0.67). Two week post-procedure PVR greater than 200 ml was noted in 3 ( 25 %) of the placebo group and 2 ( 15 %) of the treatment group ( p = 0.64) for an overall rate of 20 %. Eleven ( 84 %) participants in each group reported being `` mostly satisfied '' or `` very much satisfied '' with pain control. BO suppository use did not significantly reduce bladder injection pain<symptom> , or increase risk of urinary<symptom> retention<symptom> immediately post-procedure or two weeks later. Satisfaction with pain control among BTX-A injection patients is high.