  Proton postmastectomy radiation therapy ( PMRT) patients are positioned daily using surface imaging with additional x-ray imaging for confirmation. This study aims to investigate whether weekly x-ray imaging with daily surface imaging , as performed for photon treatment , is sufficient to maintain PMRT patient positioning fidelity. Calculated radiographic corrections and surface imaging residual setup errors were analyzed at the treatment angle for 28 PMRT patients ( with and without breast implant , left and right sided). The temporal repartition of radiographic translations > 3 mm occurring after surface imaging positioning was studied as well as their impact on the final patient position , defined as the comparison between the treatment angle surface image and the planning computed tomography scan. To compare both sets of images , the traditional bony anatomy landmarks on the digitally reconstructed radiographs were replaced by 3 radiopaque markers placed over the patient 's skin tattoos. The temporal variation of the distances between these skin markers was analyzed , as were the surface imaging statistics. Discrepancies between surface imaging and x-ray imaging were more frequent for patients without breast implants and among reconstructed patients with large implants. One-quarter of studied patients exhibited calculated radiographic translations > 3 mm during the last week of treatment. In most circumstances , applying radiographic corrections did not affect patient position , which remained within 3 mm/2 ° robustness tolerances. One patient 's implant shifted following computed tomography planning; this shift would not have been detected without x-ray imaging. Initial and weekly x-ray acquisition combined with daily surface imaging seems adequate both for routine PMRT positioning and to monitor potential changes in the treatment area. The limits of the surface imaging system , however , need to be better specified among patients without breast implants or in those with large implant reconstructions.