  Differentiation of benign and malignant thyroid nodules<symptom> is crucial for clinical management. Here , we explored the efficacy of next‑generation sequencing ( NGS) in predicting the classification of benign and malignant thyroid nodules<symptom> and lymph node metastasis status , and simultaneously compared the results with ultrasound ( US). Thyroline was designed to detect 15 target gene mutations and 2 fusions in 98 formalin‑fixed , paraffin‑embedded ( FFPE) tissues , including those from 82 thyroid cancer ( TC) patients and 16 patients with benign nodules<symptom>. BRAF mutations were found in 57.69 % of the papillary thyroid cancer ( PTC) cases , while RET mutations were detected among all the medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC) cases. Multiple mutations were positive but none showed dominance in anaplastic thyroid cancer ( ATC) and follicular thyroid cancer ( FTC). The sensitivity and specificity of NGS prediction in differentiation of benign and malignant thyroid nodules<symptom> were 79.27 and 93.75 % , respectively , and the positive predictive value ( PPV) and negative predictive value ( NPV) were 98.48 and 46.88 % , respectively. The sens-itivity and specificity of US were 76.83 and 6.25 % , respectively , and the PPV and NPV were 80.77 and 5.00 % , respectively. The area under curve ( AUC) of NGS and US were 0.865 and 0.415 , respectively. A total of 27 patients had ≥ 1 metastases to lymph nodes , 19 of which carried mutations , including BRAF , RET , NRAS , PIK3CA , TP53 , CTNNB1 and PTEN. However , there was no correlation between the variant allele frequency of specific gene mutations and the number of metastatic lymph nodes. In conclusion , the prediction value of NGS was higher than the US‑based Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data System ( TI‑RADS). NGS is valuable for the accurate differentiation of benign and malignant thyroid nodules<symptom> , and pathological subtypes in FFPE samples. The findings of the present study may pave the way for the application of NGS in analyzing fine‑needle aspiration ( FNA) biopsy samples.