  Spinal cord injury ( SCI) , especially the complete SCI , usually results in complete paralysis below the level of the injury and seriously affects the patient 's quality of life. SCI repair is still a worldwide medical problem. In the last twenty years , Professor DAI Jianwu and his team pioneered complete SCI model by removing spinal tissue with varied lengths in rodents , canine , and non-human primates to verify therapeutic effect of different repair strategies. Moreover , they also started the first clinical study of functional collagen scaffold on patients with acute complete SCI on January 16th , 2015. This review mainly focusses on the possible mechanisms responsible for complete SCI. In common , recovery of some sensory and motor functions post complete SCI include the following three contributing reasons. ① Regeneration of long ascending and descending axons throughout the lesion<symptom> site to re-connect the original targets; ② New neural circuits formed in the lesion<symptom> site by newly generated neurons post injury , which effectively re-connect the transected stumps; ③ The combined effect of ① and ②. The numerous studies have confirmed that neural circuits rebuilt across the injury site by newborn neurons might be the main mechanisms for functional recovery of animals from rodents to dogs. In many SCI model , especially the complete spinal cord transection model , many studies have convincingly demonstrated that the quantity and length of regenerated long descending axons , particularly like CST fibers , are too few to across the lesion<symptom> site that is millimeters in length to realize motor functional recovery. Hence , it is more feasible in guiding neuronal relays formation by bio-scaffolds implantation than directing long motor axons regeneration in improving motor function of animals with complete spinal cord transection. However , some other issues such as promoting more neuronal relays formation , debugging wrong connections , and maintaining adequate neural circuits for functional recovery are urgent problems to be addressed.