  Monoglycerides form lipophilic liquid-crystalline ( LC) phases when mixed with water. The corresponding LC nanostructures coexist with excess water , which is a necessary condition for the formation of internally nanostructured dispersed particles. These nanostructures comprise bicontinuous cubic phases , inverted hexagonal phases , and inverted micellar cubic phases. The dispersed particles are therefore named cubosomes , hexosomes , or micellar cubosomes. Such dispersions are usually stabilized by hydrophilic high-molecular-weight triblock ( TB) copolymers. Another way to stabilize such dispersions is by forming the so-called Pickering or Ramsden emulsions using nanoparticles as stabilizers. In this contribution , we explore the possibility of forming and stabilizing inverted or reverse systems , that is , dispersions of hydrophilic LC phases in an excess oil phase like tetradecane. Our aim was to change from oil-in-water emulsions to water-in-oil emulsions , where the water phase is a LC phase in equilibrium with excess oil and where the oil is nonpolar , for example , an alkane. This work consists of three parts: ( 1) to find a hexagonal hydrophilic LC phase that can not only incorporate a certain amount of tetradecane but can also coexist with excess tetradecane in the case of higher oil concentration , ( 2) to find a suitable stabilizer-either polymeric or nanoparticle type-that can stabilize the emulsion without destroying the hexagonal LC phase , and finally ( 3) to check the stability of this reverse hexosome emulsion. We discovered that it is possible to create a hexagonal hydrophilic LC phase with short-chain nonionic surfactants such as polyethylene glycol alkyl ethers or with high-molecular-weight TB copolymers of type A-B-A. Furthermore , it is possible to successfully stabilize the reverse hexosomes with low hydrophilic-lipophilic balance<symptom> TB copolymers-either synthesized in our laboratory or commercially available ones-as well as with hydrophobized , commercially available silica nanoparticles.