  The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of serine proteinase inhibitor family G1 ( SERPING1) down-regulation with poor prognosis in patients with prostate cancer ( PCa). Furthermore , we aim to find more novel and effective PCa molecular markers to provide an early screening of PCa , distinguish patients with aggressive PCa , predict the prognosis , or reduce the economic burden of PCa. SERPING1 protein expression in both human PCa and normal prostate tissues was detected by immunohistochemical staining , which intensity was analyzed in association with clinical pathological parameters such Gleason score , pathological grade , clinical stage , tumor stage , lymph node metastasis , and distant metastasis. Moreover , we used The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA) Database , Taylor Database , and Oncomine dataset to validate our immunohistochemical results and investigated the value of SERPING1 in PCa at mRNA level. Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox regression analysis were performed to evaluate the relationship between SERPING1 and prognosis of patients with PCa. The outcome showed that SERPING1 was expressed mainly in cytoplasm of grand cells of prostate tissue and was significantly expressed less in PCa ( P < 0.001). Furthermore , in the tissue microarray of our samples , decreasing expression of SERPING1 was correlated with the higher Gleason score ( P = 0.004) , the higher pathological grade ( P = 0.01) and the advanced tumor stage ( P = 0.005) at protein level. In TCGA dataset and Taylor Dataset , low-expressed SERPING1 was correlated with the younger patient ( P = 0.02 in TCGA , P = 0.044 in Taylor) and the higher Gleason score ( P = 0.019 in TCGA , P < 0.001 in Taylor) at mRNA level. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the lower mRNA of SERPING1 predicted lower overall survivals ( P = 0.027 in TCGA) , lower disease-free survival ( P = 0.029) and lower biochemical recurrence-free survival ( P = 0.011 in Taylor). Data from Oncomine database shown that SERPING1 low expression implying higher malignancy of prostate lesions<symptom>. Using multivariate analysis , we also found that SERPING1 expression was independent prognostic marker of poor disease-free survival and biochemical recurrence-free survival. SERPING1 may play an important role in PCa and can be serve as a novel marker in diagnosis and prognostic prediction in PCa. In addition , levels of SERPING1 can help identify low-risk prostate to provide reference for patients with PCa to accept active surveillance and reduce overtreatment.