  To determine the risk factors , intraoperative and postoperative complications , therapeutic interventions , and visual outcomes for persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> in primary resident-performed cataract surgeries. Ben Taub General Hospital , Houston , Texas , USA. Retrospective case series. Primary resident-performed cataract surgeries from January 2012 to June 2015 were analyzed for persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> , defined as persistent anterior chamber inflammatory reaction after a standard 1-month topical corticosteroid and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug ( NSAID) drops taper. Preoperative characteristics , operative complications , therapeutic modalities , and duration of therapy were analyzed. The primary outcome measures were duration of corticosteroid and NSAID therapy , treatment modalities , and postoperative visual outcomes at the 1-month postoperative visit. The study assessed 1290 primary resident-performed cataract surgeries. Persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> occurred in 82 eyes ( 6.6 %). The presumed etiology was classified as idiopathic persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> , nonadherence to topical therapy , and complicated cataract surgery. Patients with persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> were more likely of African American descent , had hypertension , or used aspirin , anticoagulants , or prostaglandins ( P = .019 , P = .027 , P = .028 , P = .020 , respectively). The complicated cataract subgroup required a longer duration of therapy ( P = .021) and was the only subgroup to require injections or systemic corticosteroids. There was no significant difference in postoperative corrected distance visual acuity ( CDVA) when comparing patients with persistent postoperative inflammation<symptom> with those without inflammation<symptom> or between the subgroups. The idiopathic and nonadherent subgroups were successfully treated with topical antiinflammatory therapy; the complicated subgroup required longer duration and multiple modalities of treatment. Visual outcomes were comparable to the general cataract population with no differences in postoperative CDVA.