  MPM is a rare malignancy with some unique characteristics. Tumor biology is aggressive and prognosis is poor. Despite more knowledge on histology , tumor biology and staging , there is still a relevant discrepancy between clinical and pathologic staging resulting in difficult prediction of prognosis and treatment outcome , making treatment allocation more challenging than in most other malignancies.After years of nihilism in the late eighties , a period of activism started evaluating different treatment protocols combined with research driven mainly by academic centers; at the time , selection was based on histology and stage only. This period was important to gain knowledge about the disease. However , the interpretation of data was difficult since selection criteria and definitions varied substantially. Not surprisingly , until now there is no common agreement on best treatment even among specialists. Hence , a review of our current concepts is indicated and personalized treatment should become applicable in the future.Surgery was and still is an issue of debate. In principle , surgery is an effective approach as it allows macroscopic complete elimination of a tumor , which is relatively resistant to medical treatment. It helps to set the clock back and other therapies that have also just a limited effect can be applied sequentially before or after surgery. Furthermore , to date best long-term outcome is reported from surgical series in combination with other modalities.However , part of the community consider surgery associated with too high morbidity and mortality when balanced to the limited life expectancy. This criticism is understandable , since poor results after surgery are reported. The present article will review the indication for surgery and discuss the different procedures available for macroscopic complete resection- such as lung-preserving ( extended) pleurectomy/decortication as well as extrapleural pneumonectomy to illustrate that `` The surgeon is still there! ''.