  The present study aimed to identify novel intervertebral disc degeneration ( IDD) associated long noncoding ( lnc) RNAs and genes. The lncRNA and mRNA microarray dataset GSE56081 was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and included 5 samples from patients with degenerative lumbar nucleus pulposus and 5 normal controls. Differentially expressed lncRNAs or differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) were identified and co‑expression network analysis was performed followed by functional analysis for genes in the network. Additionally , a microRNA ( miRNA) lncRNA‑mRNA competing endogenous RNA ( ceRNA) regulatory network was constructed based on DEGs and lncRNAs in the co‑expression network. Furthermore , a literature search was performed to identify specific miRNAs that had been previously associated with IDD and a specific miRNA‑associated ceRNA network was extracted from the co‑expression network. A total of 967 genes and 137 lncRNAs were differentially expressed between IDD samples and controls. A co‑expression network was constructed and contained 39 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 209 DEGs , which were primarily involved in ` skeletal system development ' , ` response to mechanical stimulus ' and ` bone development '. Furthermore , a ceRNA network was established , including 79 miRNAs , 9 downregulated lncRNAs and 148 DEGs. The identified miRNAs included a previously reported disease‑associated miRNA , hsa‑miR‑140. The present study demonstrated that hsa‑miR‑140 was regulated by three lncRNAs in the hsa‑miR‑140‑associated ceRNA network , including KCNQ1 opposite strand/antisense transcript 1 ( KCNQ1OT1) , OIP5 antisense RNA 1 ( OIP5‑AS1) and UGDH antisense RNA 1 ( UGDH‑AS1). KCNQ1OT1 was co‑expressed with neurochondrin ( NCDN) and lon peptidase 2 , peroxisomal. In addition , the lncRNAs OIP5‑AS1 and UGDH‑AS1 targeted several overlapping co‑expressed genes , including forkhead box F1 ( FOXF1) and polycystin 1 , transient receptor potential channel interacting ( PKD1). Therefore , KCNQ1OT1 may regulate the expression of NCDN , and OIP5‑AS1 and UGDH‑AS1 may affect the expression of FOXF1 and PKD1 in IDD. Further experiments are required to validate the results of the present study , which may provide valuable insights into the identification of novel biomarkers associated with IDD.