  Passive transfer of immunity is essential for the short- and long-term health of dairy calves. The objective of this study was to evaluate factors associated with colostrum quality and passive transfer status of US heifer calves. This study included 104 operations in 13 states that participated in the calf component of the National Animal Health Monitoring System 's Dairy 2014 study. This 18-mo longitudinal study included 1,972 Holstein heifer calves from birth to weaning. Multivariable mixed linear regression models were selected using backward elimination model selection after univariate screening to determine which factors were associated with colostrum IgG and serum IgG concentrations. The mean colostrum IgG concentration was 74.4 g/L with 77.4 % of colostrum samples having IgG concentrations > 50 g/L. The final model for colostrum IgG included colostrum source and a categorized temperature-humidity index value ( cTHI) for the month before calving. Mean colostrum IgG concentrations were highest for dams in third and higher lactations ( 84.7 g/L) and lowest for commercial colostrum replacers ( 40.3 g/L). Colostrum IgG concentrations were highest for cTHI ≥ 70 ( 72.6 g/L) and lowest for cTHI < 40 ( 64.2 g/L). The mean serum IgG concentration was 21.6 g/L , with 73.3 % of calves having serum IgG concentrations > 15 g/L. The final model for serum IgG concentration included region , heat treatment of colostrum , colostrum source , timing to first feeding , volume of colostrum fed in the first 24 h , age of the calf at blood sampling , and colostrum IgG concentration. Mean serum IgG concentrations were highest for calves that received colostrum from first-lactation dams ( 25.7 g/L) and lowest for calves fed commercial colostrum replacer ( 16.6 g/L). Serum IgG concentrations were higher for calves fed heat-treated colostrum ( 24.4 g/L) than for calves fed untreated colostrum ( 20.5 g/L). Serum IgG concentration was positively associated with the volume of colostrum fed in the first 24 h and colostrum IgG concentration , and negatively associated with the number of hours from birth to colostrum feeding and age ( days) at blood collection. Dairy producers should be encouraged to measure the quality of colostrum before administering it to calves and to measure serum IgG or a proxy such as serum total protein or Brix to evaluate passive immunity and colostrum management programs.