  Viruses<pathogen> persist outside their hosts in a variety of forms , from naked virions to virus protected in sloughed tissues or carcasses , and for a range of times , all of which affect the likelihood and importance of transmission from the environment. This review synthesizes the literature on environmental persistence of viruses in the genus Ranavirus ( family Iridoviridae) , which are large double-stranded DNA viruses of ectothermic , often aquatic or semiaquatic vertebrates. Ranaviruses have been associated with mass mortality events in natural and captive settings around the world , and with population and community-wide declines in Europe. Early work suggested ranaviruses are environmentally robust and transmission from the environment should be common. More recent work has shown a large effect of temperature and microbial action on persistence times , although other aspects of the environment ( e.g. , water chemistry) and aquatic communities ( e.g. , zooplankton) may also be important. Ranaviruses may persist in the carcasses of animals that have died of infection , and so decomposing organisms and invertebrate scavengers may reduce these persistence times. The question is , do persistence times vary enough to promote or preclude substantial transmission from the environment. We built an epidemiological model with transmission from contacts , free virus in water , and carcasses , to explore the conditions in which environmental persistence could be important for ranavirus epidemiology. Based on prior work , we expected a substantial amount of transmission from the water and that longer persistence times would make this route of transmission dominant. However , neither water-borne nor transmission from carcasses played an important role in the simulated epidemics except under fairly restrictive conditions , such as when there were high rates of virus shedding or high rates of scavenging on highly infectious carcasses. While many aspects of environmental persistence of ranaviruses are being resolved by experiments , key parameters such as viral shedding rates are virtually unknown and will need to be empirically constrained if we are to determine whether environmental persistence and transmission from the environment are essential or insignificant features of Ranavirus epidemiology. We conclude by emphasizing the need to place environmental persistence research in an epidemiological framework.