  A central ethical dilemma in management of the patient with a disorder of sex development ( DSD) is the potential conflict between respect for the fundamental right of the child for physical and emotional integrity and self-determination , and the right of parents to serve as surrogate decision-makers and act in their child 's best interest. Over the past 2 years we have encountered three complex DSD cases on the spectrum of mixed gonadal dysgenesis to ovotesticular DSD in which gender assignment and therefore optimal surgical management was uncertain. All patients had mosaic karyotypes with Y chromosome , dysgenetic ovary and dysgenetic testis , a urogenital sinus , and prominent phallus. In all three cases a team approach was taken to assess functional potential and risks along either gender pathway and to develop a spectrum of treatment options for parental consideration , including: 1. masculinization with removal of dysgenetic ovary; 2. initial vaginoplasty but with retention of the phallus ( ± bilateral gonadectomy); 3. initial vaginoplasty with `` burial '' of corporal bodies ( Pippi Salle procedure) ( ± bilateral gonadectomy); 4. full feminization: vaginoplasty and clitoroplasty ( with bilateral gonadectomy); 5. no surgical intervention. In all three cases , after consideration of risks and benefits of all options , parents selected option 2: gonadectomy to eliminate tumor risk and vaginoplasty , taking advantage of the child 's young age to exteriorize urinary and reproductive tracts to avoid incontinence and infection and supporting parental bias toward female gender , but preservation of phallic structures to ensure a male option should the patient later declare a male gender identity. Parents of the three patients were contacted post-operatively ( at 7 , 17 , and 22 months) for follow-up. All ( 3/3) regarded their child 's development and wellbeing positively , and their own decisions regarding gender assignment and surgical plan favorably. All ( 3/3) regarded the team advisory process as balanced and supportive. In the setting of exposure of the neonatal brain to testosterone , vaginoplasty and phallic preservation afforded a balance<symptom> between parental preferences and preservation of anatomic options , allowing potential reconstruction of male or female phenotype as gender identity is ascertained thereby respecting both parent and patient rights. Parents valued a spectrum of options , transparency , and the team decision-making process.