  We evaluated the ability of ustekinumab , a monoclonal antibody against the p40 subunit of interleukins 12 and 23 , to induce endoscopic healing in patients with moderate to severe Crohn 's disease ( CD). We performed an endoscopy sub-study of 334 patients with moderate to severe CD participating in 3 randomized , controlled , phase 3 studies to determine the safety and efficacy of ustekinumab induction and maintenance therapy. All patients underwent colonoscopy at baseline and week 8 of the induction studies and at week 44 of the maintenance study; all colonoscopies were assessed by a blinded central reader. During the induction studies , patients were randomly assigned to groups given intravenous ustekinumab ( 130 mg or 6 mg/kg) or placebo. At the baseline timepoint of the maintenance study ( week 8 of the induction studies) , patients with a clinical response to ustekinumab were randomly assigned to groups given subcutaneous ustekinumab ( 90 mg every 12 weeks or 8 weeks) or placebo. Additional maintenance analysis populations were patients who did not respond to ustekinumab or placebo during the induction studies , and patients who responded to placebo during the induction studies; we performed a post-hoc pooled analysis of randomly assigned and non-randomly assigned patients of the maintenance study. We analyzed data from patients with an ulcer<disease> in at least 1 segment at baseline of the induction studies. The primary endpoint was change in the simplified endoscopic activity score for CD ( SES-CD) , from baseline , at week 8. We also assessed the efficacy of maintenance therapy. Patients given ustekinumab had a greater reduction in SES-CD from the induction baseline timepoint until week 8 than placebo ( reduction of 2.8 in patients given ustekinumab vs a reduction of 0.7 points in patients given placebo; P = .012). Results were similar among patients in different induction studies and patients given different doses of ustekinumab. At week 44 , reductions in the SES-CD from the induction baseline were greater in patients given ustekinumab ( for combined groups , a reduction of 2.5; P = .176 and for every 8 weeks , a reduction of 3.1; P = .107) than patients given placebo ( reduction of 1.9 points). Maintenance results were similar for the larger pooled post-hoc analysis. In an analysis of data from 3 trials of patients with moderate to severe CD , ustekinumab ( intravenous induction and subcutaneous maintenance) reduces SES-CD , compared with placebo. We observed significant reductions in endoscopic disease activity at week 8 of induction therapy with ustekinumab.