  Brain oscillations in the gamma frequency band of the electroencephalogram ( EEG) have been implicated in several sensory and cognitive processes , and have also been associated with numerous neuropsychiatric disorders , including depression<symptom> The widely prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs) , similarly to other antidepressants , are known to produce markedly different effects on sleep and behavioral measures with acute and chronic administration. Although there are studies examining the acute effect of escitalopram on slower ( < 30 Hz) oscillations , we hardly could find any data about the effect of the drug on higher-frequency EEG oscillations ( > 30 Hz) in different sleep-wake stages , particularly comparing the acute and chronic effects of the drug concerning gamma oscillations. Our aim was to investigate , how escitalopram affects gamma power in different sleep-wake stages , and to discover possible differential effects between acute and chronic treatment. EEG-equipped Wistar rats were treated with escitalopram or vehicle acutely ( 10 mg/kg , i.p.) or chronically ( 10 mg/kg/day for 21 days , osmotic minipumps) and frontoparietal EEG , electromyogram and motor activity were recorded during the first 3 h of passive phase. We found that acute and chronic escitalopram treatment affected gamma oscillations differently. While acute escitalopram caused a reduction in gamma power during rapid eye movement<symptom> sleep ( REMS) and intermediate stage of sleep ( IS) , chronic treatment caused an elevation in gamma power during non-REMS stages , namely in light and deep slow-wave sleep ( SWS-1 and SWS-2 , respectively) and in IS. However , gamma activity during active and passive wakefulness ( AW and PW , respectively) was not influenced by either acute or chronic dosing of escitalopram. Furthermore , we found that in drug-free ( vehicle-treated) rats , a relatively high gamma power was present during wakefulness and REMS , while a much lower power was measured during non-REMS stages. These findings indicate that acute and chronic administration of escitalopram alter gamma activity differently , moreover , in a sleep-wake stage dependent manner that may be related to differential therapeutic and/or side effects.