  The World Health Organization and the World Bank 's `` World Report on Disability '' reported that over 1 billion people have various kinds of disability worldwide while Indian Census 2011 reported about 26 million in India. The United Nations Convention states , `` The Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( PwD) include accessibility to Information , Transportation , Environment , Communication Technology and Services ''. This article takes forward the reason of making the `` EasenAccess '' ( EnA) Android-based app to empower PwD with wheelchair-accessibility information , communication sentences and sending SOS signals with location. A survey of 25 most frequented places in New Delhi by common people and tourist with chosen 12 parameters in comparison the Government of India 's survey of 100 most important buildings nationally. A statistical analysis and recommendations about areas for improvement , for the Government of India. EasenAccess helps millions of PwD to enable them with freedom of movement for employment and socio-economic activities to lead an independent lifestyle. EasenAccess increases government 's access to information about lacunae , gives them an easy way to tabulate the places where more accessibility needs updating , and helps the government in facilitating information flow to the PwD. Implication for Rehabilitation The Rights of Persons with Disability Act in 2016 covers both the concepts of Universal Design of products , environments and programs; and accessibility. We are exploring with them the ways technology can help bridge the gap between rehabilitation and accessibility. In the higher income countries such as the UK or USA , it is normal for a person to receive training when being given a wheelchair to prevent future injuries. Frequently , even with this , training people develop upper limb injuries , due in part to the high , repetitive loads needed to push a wheelchair. This training is given as part of a package of rehabilitation , which also normally includes adaptations to people 's living environments , which will enable them to use their wheelchair indoors. In Accessible Routes from Crowd-based Cloud Services ( ARCCS) many NGOs have been able to develop sensors , which are themselves part of the Internet of Things , which when attached to a mobility device extend the ability of that device. Users can interact with the sensor data on their mobile phone via an app. They can also add geo-tagged photo or voice notes to annotate their journey. These can then be shared with other users of the ARCCS system. The system has been developed with a range of wheelchair users and other stakeholders. For example , one such initiative by the Government of India is called `` Street Rehab ''. The aim of Street Rehab is to co-develop a new system for delivering a service for wheelchair users , which puts everyday activities at the heart of the rehabilitation process. To do this , a clear understanding of user needs , available technology and the accessibility of the city are all required. The first step is to understand the current accessibility of Delhi , the next to map this with the rehabilitation and livelihoods requirements of the wheelchair and tricycle users. This approach has led to the development of novel sensors and a data processing chain , which can automatically identify features of the sidewalk or surface , for example , drop curb , camber , and rough terrain. These classifications are then used to help with increasing localization of the person. In addition , the sensors can be used to identify how the pushing techniques of people , who self-propel their wheelchair. They have developed these sensors , as mobile phones alone , while useful if secured in a fixed position , are not adequate when loosely placed in bags or pockets. The aim is to find practical solutions for those who use mobility aids in India to access the services and places they wish to without risk of injury. Injuries can occur due to toppling out of a mobility device , being hit by a vehicle or developing an injury over time due to the demand of pushing/cycling the mobility device. EasenAccess can be a synergistic platform for all such future community based rehabilitation approaches. It can also help compile and collate data for accessibility gaps and rehabilitation issues encountered. EasenAccess app can thus help create an emerging framework , which puts the experience of the wheelchair user at the center but with a clear connection to people who can implement policy change on a broad scale.One that includes local people who will be advocates for creation of accessible maps , and local NGOs to provide hubs of training. These can be linked to a series of YouTube videos and supported via a messaging service , for example , local WhatsApp groups or social media groups , for example , a Facebook Page. With infinite possibilities , as illustrated above , EasenAccess app can create a new technological paradigm for convergence of Accessibility and Rehabilitation.