  Skene 's ( periurethral) gland adenocarcinoma is very rare , with only 7 cases reported in the literature. This is the first series of cases on this entity. We describe the histologic , immunohistochemical , and clinical findings of 4 patients with Skene 's gland adenocarcinoma retrieved from the Johns Hopkins Urologic Pathology Consult Service from 1984 to 2017. The average age at diagnosis of the 4 women was 74.5 years ( range , 61 to 87 y). Tumors were treated by limited resections with negative margins. Tumor size ranged from 1.0 to 2.0 cm ( mean , 1.5 cm). Average follow-up time was 40.7 months ( range , 4 to 132 mo). Three of our cases were morphologically consistent with prostatic acinar adenocarcinoma with variable cribriform , fused , and poorly formed glands , analogous to Gleason score 4 +4 = 8. Of these , one had mixed ductal features with neoplastic cells showing papillary carcinoma with columnar cytology. These 3 lesions<symptom> were positive for PSA , P501S , NKX3 .1 , and AMACR. Focal goblet cells positive for CK20 and negative for prostatic markers were seen in one of these cases , suggesting intestinal differentiation ( although negative for CDX2 and SATB2). A fourth case had glandular and papillary formations with pseudostratified columnar epithelium and mucin secretion , showing positivity for CK7 , ER , and P16 , and negativity for prostatic markers , suggesting serous differentiation ( although negative for PAX8 and WT1). PIN4 cocktail confirmed the origin in preexisting paraurethral glands in 3 of the cases. All patients were alive and free of recurrence or metastatic disease at the time of last follow-up. Because of the rarity of Skene 's gland adenocarcinomas , there is no consensus regarding their treatment. Our findings demonstrate that Skene 's gland adenocarcinomas recapitulate morphologies and immunohistochemical markers seen in prostatic adenocarcinoma. However , it is unknown whether applying the same grading criteria for prostatic adenocarcinomas to Skene 's gland adenocarcinoma is valid given the small number of cases with variable treatment and limited follow-up.