  Electronic waste ( E-waste) contain large environmental contaminants such as toxic heavy metals and hazardous chemicals. These contaminants would migrate into drinking water or food chains and pose a serious threat to environment and human health. Biodegradable green electronics has great potential to address the issue of E-waste. Here , we report on a novel biodegradable and flexible transparent electrode , integrating three-dimensionally ( 3D) interconnected conductive nanocomposites into edible starch-chitosan-based substrates. Starch and chitosan are extracted from abundant and inexpensive potato and crab shells , respectively. Nacre-inspired interface designs are introduced to construct a 3D interconnected single wall carbon nanotube ( SCNT)- pristine graphene ( PG)- conductive polymer network architecture. The inorganic one-dimensional SCNT and two-dimensional PG sheets are tightly cross-linked together at the junction interface by long organic conductive poly ( 3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) ( PEDOT) chains. The formation of a 3D continuous SCNT-PG-PEDOT conductive network leads to not only a low sheet resistance but also a superior flexibility. The flexible transparent electrode possesses an excellent optoelectronic performance: typically , a sheet resistance of 46 Ω/sq with a transmittance of 83.5 % at a typical wavelength of 550 nm. The sheet resistance of the electrode slightly increased less than 3 % even after hundreds of bending cycles. The lightweight flexible and biocompatible transparent electrode could conform to skin topography or any other arbitrary surface naturally. The edible starch-chitosan substrate-based transparent electrodes could be biodegraded in lysozyme solution rapidly at room temperature without producing any toxic residues. SCNT-PG-PEDOT can be recycled via a membrane process for further fabrication of conductive and reinforcement composites. This high-performance biodegradable transparent electrode is a promising material for next-generation wearable green optoelectronics , transient electronics , and edible electronics.