  Clinical practicum is a major learning component for pre-registration nursing students. Various clinical practicum models have been used to facilitate students ' clinical learning experiences , employing both university-based and hospital-based clinical teachers. Considering the strengths and limitations of these clinical practicum models , along with nursing workforce shortages , we developed and tested an innovative clinical partnership model ( CPM) in Hong Kong. To evaluate an innovative CPM among nursing students actual and preferred clinical learning environment , compared with a conventional facilitation model ( CFM). A non-randomized controlled trial examining students ' clinical experiences , comparing the CPM ( supervised by hospital clinical teacher) with the CFM ( supervised by university clinical teacher). One university in Hong Kong. Pre-registration nursing students ( N = 331) , including bachelor of nursing ( n = 246 year three-BN) and masters-entry nursing ( n = 85 year one-MNSP). Students were assigned to either the CPM ( n = 48 BN plus n = 85 MNSP students) or the CFM ( n = 198 BN students) for their clinical practice experiences in an acute medical-surgical ward. Clinical teachers supervised between 6 and 8 students at a time , during these clinical practicums ( duration = 4-6 weeks). At the end of the clinical practicum , students were invited to complete the Clinical Learning Environment Inventory ( CLEI). Analysis of covariance was used to compare groups; adjusted for age , gender and prior work experience. A total of 259 students ( mean age = 22 years , 76 % female , 81 % prior work experience) completed the CLEI ( 78 % response rate). Students had higher scores on preferred versus actual experiences , in all domains of the CLEI. CPM student experiences indicated a higher preferred task orientation ( p = 0.004) , while CFM student experiences indicated a higher actual ( p < 0.001) and preferred individualization ( p = 0.005). No significant differences were noted in the other domains. The CPM draws on the strengths of existing clinical learning models and provides complementary methods to facilitate clinical learning for pre-registration nursing students. Additional studies examining this CPM with longer duration of clinical practicum are recommended.