  To assess the influence of a home-based exercise intervention on indices of health-related quality of life ( HRQOL) in persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI). This was a randomized controlled trial ( HOMEX-SCI; ISRCTN57096451). After baseline laboratory testing and a week of free-living physical activity monitoring , eligible participants were randomly assigned ( 2:1 allocation ratio) to a home-based moderate-intensity upper-body exercise intervention ( INT , n = 13) , or a lifestyle maintenance control group ( CON , n = 8) , for 6 weeks. Home-based with short laboratory visits immediately before and after the intervention/control period. Twenty-one inactive participants with chronic ( > 1 year) SCI ( injury level range , T4- L5). Participants assigned to the exercise intervention group ( INT) completed 4 x 45 min moderate-intensity ( 60-65 % peak oxygen uptake ( V̇O2 peak)) arm-crank exercise per week for 6 weeks. Participants assigned to the control group ( CON) were asked to maintain their habitual physical activity behaviour. Secondary outcome measures were assessed , including physical and emotional component scores ( PCS and MCS) of health-related quality of life ( SF-36) , fatigue<symptom> , global fatigue<symptom> ( FSS) and shoulder pain index ( WUSPI). Cardiorespiratory fitness ( CRF) , objectively measured habitual moderate-to-vigorous physical activity ( MVPA) and exercise self-efficacy ( ESE) were also assessed at baseline and follow-up. Changes in the PCS ( P = 0.017) of the SF-36 , ESE ( P = 0.011) and FSS ( P = 0.036) were significantly different between the two groups , with moderate to large effect sizes ( d = 0.75- 1.37). Various HRQOL outcomes demonstrated ` likely ' to ` very likely ' positive inferences in favour of the INT group following the 6-week exercise intervention. Changes in ESE were significantly ( P < 0.01) associated with changes in PCS ( r = 0.62) and MCS ( r = 0.71) , FSS ( r = -0.71) and global fatigue<symptom> ( r = 0.57). A 6-week upper-body exercise intervention improved indices of HRQOL in persons with SCI. Improvements were associated with increases in ESE. While this intervention demonstrated a positive impact on perceived physical functioning , future interventions should aim to support social and mental functioning and exercise maintenance.