  Retrospective case series OBJECTIVE.: To review clinical and radiological outcomes of craniovertebral surgery in children with Morquio A syndrome<disease> ( Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA) and develop an evidence-based management algorithm. Myelopathy secondary to craniovertebral pathology is a common cause of neurological disability in Morquio A syndrome<disease>. Previously unresolved surgical controversies include the value of surveillance , surgical indications and operative technique. A retrospective case-based review of children with Morquio A syndrome<disease> and craniovertebral pathology seen in a tertiary referral paediatric centre from 1992-2016 was performed. Patients treated non-operatively and operatively were included. Medical records and imaging were reviewed to determine clinical and radiological findings at initial assessment , prior to cervical spine surgery , early post-operative period and final follow-up. The clinical outcomes of interest were neurological status and mobility at follow-up , complications and need for further surgery. Twenty-seven patients were included. Surgical indications were radiological evidence of cervicomedullary compression alone ( 6 cases) or with clinical evidence of myelopathy ( 12 cases). Eighteen patients ( median age 6.2 years , range 3.5- 15.9 years) underwent surgery , with median follow-up of 8.5 years. Occiput to upper cervical spine fusion with C1 decompression was performed in all cases with the addition of autologous calvarial graft in young patients ( 12 cases) and occipital-cervical plate fixation in older children ( 6 cases). Neurological improvement occurred in 38 % of cases but by one functional level only. Six of 9 conservatively treated patients remained independent walkers. Surgery for craniovertebral pathology is required in the majority of children with Morquio A syndrome<disease>. Close clinical and radiological surveillance is essential for timely intervention. Occiput to cervical fusion is safe and feasible even in young patients and improves clinical and radiological parameters. 4.