  Gastrointestinal nematode parasites are important pathogens of all domesticated livestock species. Fecal egg counts ( FEC) are routinely used for evaluating anthelmintic efficacy and for making targeted anthelmintic treatment decisions. Numerous FEC techniques exist and vary in precision and accuracy. These performance characteristics are especially important when performing fecal egg count reduction tests ( FECRT). The objective of this study was to compare the accuracy and precision of three commonly used FEC methods and determine if differences existed among livestock species. In this study , we evaluated the modified-Wisconsin , 3-chamber ( high-sensitivity) McMaster , and Mini-FLOTAC methods in cattle , sheep , horses , and llamas in three phases. In the first phase , we performed an egg-spiking study to assess the egg recovery rate and accuracy of the different FEC methods. In the second phase , we examined clinical samples from four different livestock species and completed multiple replicate FEC using each method. In the last phase , we assessed the cheesecloth straining step as a potential source of egg loss. In the egg-spiking study , the Mini-FLOTAC recovered 70.9 % of the eggs , which was significantly higher than either the McMaster ( P = 0.002) or Wisconsin ( P = 0.002). In the clinical samples from ruminants , Mini-FLOTAC consistently yielded the highest EPG , revealing a significantly higher level of egg recovery ( P < 0.0001). For horses and llamas , both McMaster and Mini-FLOTAC yielded significantly higher EPG than Wisconsin ( P < 0.0001 , P < 0.0001 , P < 0.001 , and P = 0.024). Mini-FLOTAC was the most accurate method and was the most precise test for both species of ruminants. The Wisconsin method was the most precise for horses and McMaster was more precise for llama samples. We compared the Wisconsin and Mini-FLOTAC methods using a modified technique where both methods were performed using either the Mini-FLOTAC sieve or cheesecloth. The differences in the estimated mean EPG on log scale between the Wisconsin and mini-FLOTAC methods when cheesecloth was used ( P < 0.0001) and when cheesecloth was excluded ( P < 0.0001) were significant , providing strong evidence that the straining step is an important source of error. The high accuracy and precision demonstrated in this study for the Mini-FLOTAC , suggest that this method can be recommended for routine use in all host species. The benefits of Mini-FLOTAC will be especially relevant when high accuracy is important , such as when performing FECRT.