  Inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBDs) are associated with a decreased bone mineral density , but the impact on fractures is unknown. In our study , global risk of fracture is increased for patients with IBDs versus controls. This result will help to determine the appropriate assessment with early screening and management of osteoporosis. Inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBDs) , such as Crohn 's disease ( CD) and ulcerative colitis<disease> ( UC) , are associated with a decreased bone mineral density ( BMD). However , the impact on fracture risk is unknown and data are contradictory across studies. In this systematic review and meta-analysis , we aimed to assess the risk of fracture and presence of low BMD in patients with IBDs compared to healthy controls. A systematic search of literature was conducted of MEDLINE , EMBASE , the Cochrane library and abstracts from appropriate scientific congresses. Studies were selected if they compared the incidence of fractures and/or BMD measurement by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in patients with IBDs and healthy sex- and age-matched controls. Data were extracted by two independent investigators. Meta-analysis was performed with the inverse variance approach to estimate pooled odds ratios ( ORs) and risk ratios ( RRs) with their 95 % confidence intervals ( CIs). Twenty-four studies met the inclusion criteria. On the basis of nine studies , global risk of fracture was increased for patients with IBDs versus controls ( RR = 1.38 , 95 % CI 1.11-1.73; p = 0.005). Fracture risk with IBDs was significantly increased for vertebral fractures ( OR = 2.26 , 95 % CI 1.04-4.90; p < 0.001) , but not for any other site. The analysis of 16 studies evaluating BMD showed a significant decrease in mean BMD and Z-scores for IBD patients versus controls at all sites. In our meta-analysis , patients with IBDs have an increased risk of fractures , especially in the spine , and significant decreased BMD at all sites , which suggests the need for identifying high-risk individuals among this population.