  Sasa quelpaertensis Nakai is an edible dwarf bamboo cultivated mainly in Jeju Island , South Korea and its leaf displays various health-promoting properties including antioxidant scavenging. In this study , we aimed at elucidating its hepatoprotective effect against alcohol-induced fatty liver. In in vitro study , we evaluated the cytotoxicity and hepatoprotective effect of different solvent fractions ( aqua , butanol , chloroform , ethyl acetate and hexane) of 80 % EtOH extract of S. quelpaertensis Nakai leaf. In vivo experiment performed using binge alcohol consumption model. Although all five fractions ( 0-1000 µg/mL) were non-cytotoxic to HepG2 cells , only ethyl acetate fraction ( SQEA) , rich in phenolic acids such as p-coumaric acid and flavonoids particularly myristin , showed hepatoprotective effect against EtOH ( 400 mM) in HepG2 cells. Furthermore , SQEA significantly decreased the ethanol induced cell death and enhanced the cell proliferation. In in vivo experiment using binge consumption model ( 5 g of EtOH/kg body<symptom> weight in every 12 h for 3 times) , SQEA treatment ( 10 , 50 and 100 mg/kg) markedly reduced the alcohol induced histopathological changes and serum EtOH content , and reversed the reduction of glutathione level in ethanol challenged livers. Further , it suppressed the expression of cytochrome P450 2E1 ( CYP2E1). In particular , SQEA activated AMP activated protein kinase ( AMPK) pathway , and decreased the expression of tumor necrosis<symptom> factor receptor-1 ( TNFR1) , which attenuated lipogenesis via decreased expression of fatty acid synthase ( FAS). Inhibited lipogenesis due to SQEA treatment directed towards decreased perilipin-2 expression. These results indicate that SQEA has hypolipidemic effect which is mediated by decreased oxidative stress , increased fatty acid oxidation response and decreased lipogenesis. Our results suggest the possibility of developing SQEA as a natural hepatoprotective agent potent in attenuating alcohol-induced fatty liver.