  Diesel fuel water-accommodated fraction ( diesel-WAF) is a complex mixture of organic compounds that may cause harmful effects to marine invertebrates. Expression of microsomal proteins can be changed by oil exposure , causing functional alterations in endoplasmic reticulum ( ER). The aim of this study was to investigate changes in protein expression signatures in microsomes of oysterl Crassostrea brasiliana ( = C.gasar) gill after exposure to 10 % diesel-WAF for 24 and 72 h. Protein expression signatures of gills of oysters exposed to diesel-WAF were compared to those of unexposed oysters using two-dimensional electrophoresis ( 2-DE) to identify differentially expressed proteins. A total of 458 protein spots with molecular weights between 30-75 kDa were detected by 2-DE in six replicates of exposed oyster proteomes compared to unexposed ones. Fourteen differentially expressed proteins ( six up-regulated and eight down-regulated) were identified. They are: proteins related to xenobiotic biotransformation ( cytochrome P450 6 A , NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase); cytoskeleton ( α-tubulin , β-tubulin , gelsolin); processing and degradation of proteins pathways ( thioredoxin domain-containing protein E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MIB2); involved in the biosynthesis of glycolipids and glycoproteins ( beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase 1); associated with stress responses ( glutamate receptor 4 and 14-3-3 protein zeta , corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein); plasmalogen biosynthesis ( fatty acyl-CoA reductase 1) , and sodium-and chloride-dependent glycine transporter 2 and glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase. Different patterns of protein responses were observed between 24 and 72 h-exposed groups. Expression pattern of microsomal proteins provided a first insight on the potential diesel-WAF effects at protein level in microsomal fraction of oyster gills and indicated new potential biomarkers of exposure and effect. The present work can be a basis for future ecotoxicological studies in oysters aiming to elucidate the molecular mechanisms behind diesel-WAF toxicity and for environmental monitoring programs.