  The periparturient period is the most critical period during the lactation cycle of dairy cows and is characterized by increased oxidative stress status. The objective of this experiment was to evaluate the effect of supplementing rumen-protected methionine on nuclear factor erythroid 2-like 2 ( NFE2L2 , formerly NRF2) protein and target gene expression in the mammary gland during the early postpartal period. Multiparous Holstein cows were used in a block design experiment with 30 cows per treatment. Treatments consisting of a basal control diet ( control) or the basal diet plus rumen-protected methionine ( methionine) were fed from d -28 to 60 relative to parturition. Mammary tissue biopsies were harvested on d 21 postpartum from 5 cows per treatment. Compared with control , methionine increased dry matter intake , milk yield , and milk protein content. Among plasma parameters measured , methionine led to greater methionine and lower reactive oxygen metabolites. Compared with control , methionine supply resulted in greater mRNA abundance of the NFE2L2 target genes glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit ( GCLC) , glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit ( GCLM) , glutathione reductase ( GSR) , glutathione peroxidase 1 ( GPX1) , malic enzyme 1 ( ME1) , ferrochelatase ( FECH) , ferritin heavy chain 1 ( FTH1) , and NAD ( P) H quinone dehydrogenase 1 ( NQO1) in the mammary tissue. In addition , methionine upregulated the mRNA abundance of NFE2L2 , NFKB1 , MAPK14 and downregulated KEAP1. The ratio of phosphorylated NFE2L2 to total NFE2L2 protein , and total heme oxygenase 1 ( HMOX1) protein were markedly greater in response to methionine supply. In contrast , total protein abundance of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 ( KEAP1) , which sequesters NFE2L2 in the cytosol and reduces its activity , was lower with methionine. Besides the consistent positive effect of methionine supply on systemic inflammation<symptom> and oxidative stress status , the present data indicate a positive effect also on antioxidant mechanisms within the mammary gland , which are regulated , at least in part , via phosphorylation of NFE2L2 and its target genes. The exact mechanisms for these responses merit further study.