  Big Data , blockchains , and cloud computing have become ubiquitous in today 's mass media and are universally known terms used in everyday speech. If we look behind these often misused buzzwords , we find at least one common element , namely data. Although we hardly use these terms in the `` classic discipline '' of mineral economics , we find various similarities. The case of phosphate data bears numerous challenges in multiple forms such as uncertainties , fuzziness , or misunderstandings. Often simulation models are used to support decision-making processes. For all these models , reliable and accurate sets of data are an essential premise. A significant number of data series relating to the phosphorus supply chain , including resource inventory or production , consumption , and trade data ranging from phosphate rock to intermediates like marketable concentrate to final phosphate fertilizers , is available. Data analysts and modelers must often choose from various sources , and they also depend on data access. Based on a transdisciplinary orientation , we aim to help colleagues in all fields by illustrating quantitative differences among the reported data , taking a somewhat engineering approach. We use common descriptive statistics to measure and causally explain discrepancies in global phosphate-rock production data issued by the US Geological Survey , the British Geological Survey , Austrian World Mining Data , the International Fertilizer Association , and CRU International over time , with a focus on the most recent years. Furthermore , we provide two snapshots of global-trade flows for phosphate-rock concentrate , in 2015 and 1985 , and compare these to an approach using total-nutrient data. We find discrepancies of up to 30 % in reported global production volume , whereby the major share could be assigned directly to China and Peru. Consequently , we call for a global , independent agency to collect and monitor phosphate data in order to reduce uncertainties or fuzziness and , thereby , ultimately support policy-making processes.