  Many neurophysiological abnormalities have been described in the primary motor cortex of patients with Parkinson 's disease. However , it is unclear whether there is any relationship between them and bradykinesia<symptom> , one of the cardinal motor features of the condition. In the present study we aimed to investigate whether objective measures of bradykinesia<symptom> in Parkinson 's disease have any relationship with neurophysiological measures in primary motor cortex as assessed by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation techniques. Twenty-two patients with Parkinson 's disease and 18 healthy subjects were enrolled. Objective measurements of repetitive finger tapping ( amplitude , speed and decrement) were obtained using a motion analysis system. The excitability of primary motor cortex was assessed by recording the input/output curve of the motor-evoked potentials and using a conditioning-test paradigm for the assessment of short-interval intracortical inhibition and facilitation. Plasticity-like mechanisms in primary motor cortex were indexed according to the amplitude changes in motor-evoked potentials after the paired associative stimulation protocol. Patients were assessed in two sessions , i.e. OFF and ON medication. A canonical correlation analysis was used to test for relationships between the kinematic and neurophysiological variables. Patients with Parkinson 's disease tapped more slowly and with smaller amplitude than normal , and displayed decrement as tapping progressed. They also had steeper input/output curves , reduced short-interval intracortical inhibition and a reduced response to the paired associative stimulation protocol. Within the patient group , bradykinesia<symptom> features correlated with the slope of the input/output curve and the after-effects of the paired associative stimulation protocol. Although dopaminergic therapy improved movement kinematics as well as neurophysiological measures , there was no relationship between them. In conclusion , neurophysiological changes in primary motor cortex relate to bradykinesia<symptom> in patients with Parkinson 's disease , although other mechanisms sensitive to dopamine levels must also play a role.