  Postpartum mood disorders represent a serious problem affecting 10-20 % of women and support groups offer a promising intervention modality. The current study examined participant satisfaction with and effectiveness of a peer-facilitated postpartum support group. The program consists of a free , peer-support group , developed to increase social support and destigmatise postpartum mood symptoms. The weekly group is co-facilitated by former group attendees and maternal health professionals. The peer-support program is offered in an urban city in the southeastern United States. To address study aims , a community-based participatory research approach was implemented. Participant satisfaction was assessed via mixed methods analyses. Differences in depression<symptom> scores at follow-up between program attendees and a community sample were examined via weighted linear regression analysis following propensity score analysis. Finally , within-group change in depression<symptom> scores for program attendees was examined using a repeated measures ANOVA. Intake program data were provided by the sponsoring organisation ( n = 73) and follow-up data were collected via an online survey from program attendees ( n = 45). A community sample was recruited to establish a comparison group ( n = 152). Participant satisfaction was high with overwhelmingly positive perceptions of the program. Postparticipation depression<symptom> scores were similar to those of the community sample at follow-up ( p = .447). Among attendees , pre-post analyses revealed reductions in depression<symptom> symptoms with significant interactions for time × complications ( p ≤ .001) and time × delivery method ( p ≤ .017). Overall , findings indicate this peer-support program is not only acceptable to program attendees but also they provide a potential mechanism for improving mental health outcomes; however , further evaluation is needed. Findings also emphasise the importance of integrating evaluation procedures into community-based mental health programming to support effectiveness. Peer-support groups are an acceptable form of intervention for women experiencing postpartum