  Proteins that account for the hemolytic activity found in scorpaeniform fish venoms are responsible for the majority of the effects observed upon envenomation , for instance , neurotoxic , cardiotoxic and inflammatory effects. These multifunctional toxins , described as protein lethal factors and referred to as cytolysins , are known to be extremely labile molecules. In the present work , we endeavored to overcome this constraint by determining optimal storage conditions for Sp-CTx , the major bioactive component from the scorpionfish Scorpaena plumieri venom. This cardiotoxic hemolytic cytolysin is a large dimeric glycoprotein ( subunits of ≈ 65 kDa) with pore-forming ability. We were able to establish storage conditions that allowed us to keep the toxin partially active for up to 60 days. Stability was achieved by storing Sp-CTx at -80 and -196 °C in the presence of glycerol 10 % in a pH 7.4 solution. It was demonstrated that the hemolytic activity of Sp-CTx is calcium dependent , being abolished by EDTA and zinc ions. Furthermore , the toxin exhibited its maximal hemolytic activity at pH between 8 and 9 , displaying typical N- and O- linked glycoconjugated residues ( galactose ( 1-4) N-acetylglucosamine and sialic acid ( 2-3) galactose in N- and/or O-glycan complexes). The hemolytic activity of Sp-CTx was inhibited by phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylethanolamine , suggesting a direct electrostatic interaction lipid- toxin in the pore-formation mechanism of action of this toxin. In addition , we observed that the hemolytic activity was inhibited by increasing doses of cholesterol. Finally , we were able to show , for first time , that Sp-CTx is at least partially responsible for the pain and inflammation<symptom> observed upon envenomation. However , while the edema<symptom> induced by Sp-CTx was reduced by pre-treatment with aprotinin and HOE-140 , pointing to the involvement of the kallikrein-kinin system in this response , these drugs had no significant effect in the toxin-induced nociception. Taken together , our results could suggest that , as has been already reported for other fish cytolysins , Sp-CTx acts mostly through lipid-dependent pore formation not only in erythrocytes but also in other cell types , which could account for the pain observed upon envenomation. We believe that the present work paves the way towards the complete characterization of fish cytolysins.