  A Mediterranean-style eating pattern ( Mediterranean Pattern) is often described as being low in red meat. Research shows that lean , unprocessed red meat can be incorporated into healthy eating patterns to improve cardiometabolic disease ( CMD) risk factors. We assessed the effects of consuming different amounts of lean , unprocessed red meat in a Mediterranean Pattern on CMD risk factors. We hypothesized that consuming a Mediterranean Pattern would improve CMD risk factors and that red meat intake would not influence these improvements. In an investigator-blinded , randomized , crossover , controlled feeding trial , 41 subjects ( mean ± SD age: 46 ± 2 y; mean ± SD body mass index ( kg/m2): 30.5 ± 0.6) were provided with a Mediterranean Pattern for two 5-wk interventions separated by 4 wk of self-selected eating. The Mediterranean Patterns contained ∼ 500 g ( typical US intake ( Med-Red)) and ∼ 200 g ( commonly recommended intake in heart-healthy eating patterns ( Med-Control)) of lean , unprocessed beef or pork per week. Red meat intake was compensated by poultry and other protein-rich foods. Baseline and postintervention outcomes included fasting blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , serum lipids , lipoproteins , glucose , insulin , and ambulatory blood<symptom> pressure<symptom>. The presented results were adjusted for age , sex , and body mass at each time point ( P < 0.05). Total cholesterol decreased , but greater reductions occurred with Med-Red than with Med-Control ( -0.4 ± 0.1 and -0.2 ± 0.1 mmol/L , respectively , intervention × time = 0.045). Low-density lipoprotein decreased with Med-Red but was unchanged with Med-Control ( -0.3 ± 0.1 and -0.1 ± 0.1 mmol/L , respectively , intervention × time = 0.038) , whereas high-density lipoprotein ( HDL) concentrations decreased nondifferentially ( -0.1 ± 0.0 mmol/L). Triglycerides , total cholesterol: HDL , glucose , and insulin did not change with either Med-Red or Med-Control. All blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> parameters improved , except during sleep , independent of the red meat intake amount. Adults who are overweight or moderately obese may improve multiple cardiometabolic disease risk factors by adopting a Mediterranean-style eating pattern with or without reductions in red meat intake when red meats are lean and unprocessed. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT02573129.