  Percutaneously-placed sacroiliac ( SI) screws are currently the gold-standard fixation technique for fixation of the posterior pelvic ring. The relatively high prevalence of sacral dysmorphism in the general population introduces a high risk of cortical breach with resultant neurovascular damage. This study was performed to compare the accuracy of SI screw placement with and without the use of intraoperative navigation , as well as to externally validate the sacral dysmorphism score in a trauma patient cohort. All trauma patients who underwent sacroiliac screw fixation for pelvic fractures at a level 1 trauma centre over a 6 year period were identified. True axial and coronal sacral reconstructions were obtained from their pre-operative CT scans and assessed qualitatively and quantitatively for sacral dysmorphism- a sacral dysmorphism score was calculated by two independent assessors. Post-operative CT scans were then analysed for breaches and correlated with the hospital medical records to check for any clinical sequelae. 68 screws were inserted in 36 patients , most sustaining injuries from road traffic accidents ( 50 %) or falls from height ( 36.1 %). There was a male preponderance ( 83.3 %) with the majority of the screws inserted percutaneously ( 86.1 %). Intraoperative navigation was used in 47.2 % of the patient cohort. 30.6 % of the cohort were found to have dysmorphic sacra. The mean sacral dysmorphism scores were not significantly different between navigated and non-navigated groups. Three cortical breaches occurred , two in patients with sacral dysmorphism scores > 70 and occurring despite the use of intraoperative navigation. There was no significant difference in the rates of breach between navigated and non-navigated groups. None of the breaches resulted in any clinically observable neurovascular deficit. The sacral dysmorphism score can be clinically applied to a cohort of trauma patients with pelvic fractures. In patients with highly dysmorphic sacra , reflected by high sacral dysmorphism scores , intraoperative navigation is not in itself sufficient to prevent cortical breaches. In such patients it would be prudent to consider instrumentation of the lower sacral corridors instead.