  Aflibercept appears to accumulate in systemic circulation following intravitreal injections in therapy of neovascular age-related macular degeneration. This gives raise to the question of whether aflibercept affects platelets and their function such as activation and aggregation , which are substantial in the pathogenesis of an arterial thromboembolic event ( ATE). In order to determine the effect of aflibercept in platelet activation , platelets from healthy volunteers were treated with aflibercept and its solvents at equal concentrations ( 0.04 μg/mL- 4 μg/mL- 40 μg/mL- 400 μg/mL- 4 mg/mL) for 10 and 30 min before addition of agonists. IgG1 antibody was used as a control. The surface expression of GPIIb/IIIa , P-selectin , and platelet-bound stromal-cell-derived factor-1 , which are potential blood biomarkers for ATEs , was determined on resting and activated platelets by the multispectral imaging flow cytometry , combining the features of flow cytometry with fluorescence microscopy. Platelet aggregation was assessed with light transmission aggregometry. To determine whether aflibercept directly interacts with platelets , aflibercept was labeled with the fluorescence FITC. Co-treatment of platelets with thrombin or PAR-4-AP and aflibercept resulted in increased activation of the fibrinogen receptor GPIIb/IIIa in comparison to controls ( P < 0.05). Interestingly , the expression of platelet-derived P-selectin and SDF-1 was not affected by aflibercept , except thrombin-activated CD62P with 0.04 μg/mL aflibercept ( aflibercept vs. its solvent: MSI = 1.54 , IC = 1.201-1.879 vs. MSI = 1.37 , IC = 1.136-1.604 ( P = 0.031)) and SDF-1 with 4 mg/mL aflibercept ( aflibercept vs. its solvent: MSI = 1.971 , IC = 1.206-2.737 vs. MSI = 1.200 , IC = 0.738-1.662 ( P = 0.041)). Although the levels of platelet-bound aflibercept-FITC were significantly increased in all activated platelets , no effect was observed in platelet aggregation. Albeit no impact of aflibercept was found on platelet aggregation under the studied experimental conditions , the increased activation of the fibrinogen receptor GPIIb/IIIa and the presence of a direct interaction between aflibercept and platelets may partially explain the risk of ATE in patients under aflibercept treatment due to FcγRIIa mediated αIIbβ3 outside-in integrin signaling and transport of aflibercept into platelets. Therefore , the Fc domain seems to be involved in interactions between aflibercept and platelets. Further research is needed to explain the role of Fc containing aflibercept in the pathogenesis of drug-associated vascular events involving platelets , coagulation cascade , extracellular matrix proteins and other cells.