  Accumulating evidence has revealed the link between age‑related hearing loss ( presbycusis) and cognitive decline; however , their exact association remains unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the association between age‑related hearing loss and cognitive decline , and to explore the underlying mechanisms. Briefly , three groups of C57BL/6J mice were evaluated , based on their age , as follows: Young group , 3 months; adult group , 6 months; and middle‑aged group , 15 months. The results of an auditory brainstem response ( ABR) test demonstrated that the hearing threshold levels of the mice were increased in those aged 6 and 15 months compared with those aged 3 months , thus suggesting that significant hearing loss occurred at 6 months , and worsened at 15 months. The results of a Morris water maze test demonstrated that spatial learning and memory function was significantly decreased in 15‑month‑old mice , but not in 6‑month‑old mice. Pearson analysis indicated that the escape latency was positively correlated with hearing threshold at 16 kHz and percentage of time in the target quadrant<symptom> was negatively correlated with hearing threshold at 16 kHz , thus suggesting a correlation between age‑related hearing loss and cognitive decline. The auditory cortex and hippocampal CA1 region in 15‑month‑old mice exhibited significantly decreased cell numbers , abnormal arrangement and morphological alterations. Transmission electron microscopy revealed reduced synapse numbers and synaptic vesicle density in mice aged 15 months. Furthermore , the protein expression levels of matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP) 9 in the auditory cortex and hippocampus in the 15‑month‑old mice were significantly higher than in the 3‑month‑old mice. In conclusion , these findings support the correlation between age‑related hearing loss and cognitive decline in C57BL/6J mice , and indicated that MMP‑9 expression in the auditory cortex and hippocampus may be associated with the underlying mechanisms.