  Transcatheter right ventricle decompression in neonates with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum is technically challenging , with risk of cardiac perforation and death. Further , despite successful right ventricle decompression , re-intervention on the pulmonary valve is common. The association between technical factors during right ventricle decompression and the risks of complications and re-intervention are not well described. This is a multicentre retrospective study among the participating centres of the Congenital Catheterization Research Collaborative. Between 2005 and 2015 , all neonates with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum and attempted transcatheter right ventricle decompression were included. Technical factors evaluated included the use and characteristics of radiofrequency energy , maximal balloon-to-pulmonary valve annulus ratio , infundibular diameter , and right ventricle systolic pressure pre- and post-valvuloplasty ( BPV). The primary end point was cardiac perforation or death; the secondary end point was re-intervention. A total of 99 neonates underwent transcatheter right ventricle decompression at a median of 3 days ( IQR 2-5) of age , including 63 patients by radiofrequency and 32 by wire perforation of the pulmonary valve. There were 32 complications including 10 ( 10.5 %) cardiac perforations , of which two resulted in death. Cardiac perforation was associated with the use of radiofrequency ( p = 0.047) , longer radiofrequency duration ( 3.5 versus 2.0 seconds , p = 0.02) , and higher maximal radiofrequency energy ( 7.5 versus 5.0 J , p < 0.01) but not with patient weight ( p = 0.09) , pulmonary valve diameter ( p = 0.23) , or infundibular diameter ( p = 0.57). Re-intervention was performed in 36 patients and was associated with higher post-intervention right ventricle pressure ( median 60 versus 50 mmHg , p = 0.041) and residual valve gradient ( median 15 versus 10 mmHg , p = 0.046) , but not with balloon-to-pulmonary valve annulus ratio , atmospheric pressure used during BPV , or the presence of a residual balloon waist during BPV. Re-intervention was not associated with any right ventricle anatomic characteristics , including pulmonary valve diameter. Technical factors surrounding transcatheter right ventricle decompression in pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum influence the risk of procedural complications but not the risk of future re-intervention. Cardiac perforation is associated with the use of radiofrequency energy , as well as radiofrequency application characteristics. Re-intervention after right ventricle decompression for pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum is common and relates to haemodynamic measures surrounding initial BPV.