  Shared decision-making in the Emergency Department ( ED) can increase patient engagement for patients presenting with chest<symptom> pain<symptom>. However , little is known regarding which factors are associated with actual patient involvement in decision-making or patients ' desired involvement in emergency care decisions. We examined which factors were associated with patients ' actual and desired involvement in decision-making among ED chest<symptom> pain<symptom> patients. This is a secondary analysis of data from a randomized trial of a shared decision-making intervention in ED patients with low-risk chest<symptom> pain<symptom>. We evaluated the degree to which patients were involved in decision-making using the OPTION-12 ( observing patient involvement) scale and patients ' reported desire for involvement in decision-making using the Control Preference Scale ( CPS). We measured the associations of patient factors with OPTION-12 and CPS scores using multivariable regression. Of the 898 patients enrolled , mean age was 51.5 years and 59 % were female. Multivariable analysis revealed that only two factors were significantly associated with OPTION-12 scores: study site and use of the decision aid. OPTION-12 scores were 10.3 ( SE = 0.6) points higher for patients randomized to the decision aid compared to usual care ( p < 0.001). Higher health literacy was associated with lower scores on the CPS , indicating greater desire for involvement ( OR = 0.91 , p < 0.001). Patients ' reported desire for involvement in decision-making was higher among those with higher health literacy. After adjusting for study site and other potential confounding factors , only use of the decision aid was associated with observed patient involvement in decision-making. As the science and practice of shared decision-making in the ED moves towards implementation , high fidelity integration of the decision aid into the flow of care will be necessary to realize desired outcomes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.