  Begomoviruses ( family Geminiviridae) are frequently associated with alphasatellites and betasatellites in the Old World. Tomato yellow leaf curl virus , one of the most damaging begomovirus species worldwide , was recently found associated with betasatellites in the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea , and in the Middle<pathogen> East region. Tomato yellow leaf curl virus ( TYLCV)/ betasatellite associations were shown to increase TYLCV virulence in experimental conditions. The sustainability of TYLCV/satellite associations in tomato was assessed here by estimating accumulation levels of satellites in comparison to TYLCV , vector transmission efficiency , and by testing how far the popular Ty-1 resistance gene used in most TYLCV-resistant tomato cultivars in the Mediterranean Basin is effective against betasatellites. Three satellites previously isolated from okra in Burkina Faso-of the species Cotton leaf curl Gezira betasatellite , Cotton leaf curl Gezira alphasatellite and Okra leaf curl Burkina Faso alphasatellite-were shown to accumulate at levels similar to , or higher than , the helper virus TYLCV-Mld in tomato plants from 32 to 150 days post inoculation ( dpi). Cotton leaf curl Gezira betasatellite ( CLCuGB) reduced TYLCV-Mld accumulation whereas alphasatellites did not. Transmission tests were performed with B. tabaci from plants infected with TYLCV-Mld/CLCuGB- or TYLCV-Mld/Okra leaf curl Burkina Faso alphasatellite. At 32 dpi , both satellites were transmitted to more than 50 % of TYLCV-infected test plants. Betasatellite transmission , tested further with 150 dpi source plants was successful in more than 30 % of TYLCV-infected test plants. Ty-1 resistant tomato plants co-infected with TYLCV (- Mld or- IL) and CLCuGB exhibited mild leaf curling and mosaic symptoms at the early stage of infection associated with a positive effect on TYLCV-IL accumulation , while resistant plants infected with TYLCV only , were asymptomatic. Together with previous experimental studies , these results further emphasize the potential risk of betasatellites to tomato cultivation , including with Ty-1 resistant cultivars.