  To analyze the prevalence of Cardiovascular Risk Factors ( CVRF) in the context of a Basic Health Area and the impact they generate on morbidity and consumption of healthcare resources in the stratified population according to the Clinical System Risk Groups ( CRG) in Primary Care , with the purpose of identifying the population with multimorbidity to apply preventive measures , as well as the one that generates the highest care burden and social needs. Observational , cross-sectional and population-based study for a basic health area during 2013. Department of Health 2 ( Castellón) , Comunidad Valenciana ( CV). Includes outpatient care in Primary Care and specialized. All citizens registered in the Population Information System , N = 32,667. From the computerized system Abucasis we obtained the demographic , clinical and consumption variables of health resources. We consider the prevalence of CVRF based on the presence or absence of the ICD .9. MC diagnostic codes. The relationship of the CVRF with the 9 CRG health states was analyzed and a predictive analysis was performed with the logistic regression model to evaluate the explanatory capacity of each variable. In addition , an explanatory model of ambulatory pharmaceutical expenditure was obtained through multivariate regression. The population of health status CRG4 and above had multimorbidity. The CRG7 and 6 health states have a higher prevalence of CVRF; it was predictive that the higher the morbidity , the greater the consumption of resources through OR above the mean , p < 0.05 and the 95 % confidence intervals. It was observed that 59.8 % of ambulatory pharmaceutical expenditure was explained by the CRG system and all the CVRF ( p < 0.05 and R The study of CVRF in a stratified population using the CRG system identifies and predicts where the greatest impact on morbidity and consumption of healthcare resources is generated. It allows us to know the groups of patients where to develop prevention and chronicity strategies. At the level of clinical practice , a new concept of multimorbidity is provided , defined from the state of health CRG 4 and above.