  To explore the cardiocerebral protective effect of dexmedetomidine as an anesthetic in colorectal cancer surgery. A total of 246 colorectal cancer patients were enrolled in this retrospective analysis. Those patients were admitted to the Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University and underwent surgery from July 2014 to July 2016. The patients were divided into observation group and control group according to the anesthetic used in surgery. The conventional anesthetic was administered to patients in control group , whereas conventional anesthetic supplemented with dexmedetomidine was administered to patients in the observation group. The heart rate ( HR) , systolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> ( SBP) , diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> ( DBP) , jugular venous oxygen saturation ( Sj-vO2) , cerebral oxygen extraction ratio ( ERO2) , and cerebral arterial partial pressure of oxygen ( PaO2) were recorded before dexmedetomidine administration ( T0) , 30 min after start of surgery ( T1) , and 2 h after surgery ( T2). Central venous blood ( 4 ml) was withdrawn 6 hours and 24 hours after surgery. Following centrifugation , the serum was collected and stored at -70 °C. After collection of all the blood samples , concentrations of creatine kinase ( CK-MB) , troponin I ( cTnI) , TNF-α and S100β in serum were measured using ELISA , and differences between the two groups were compared. Differences of the parameters measured at T0 were not statistically significant between observation group and control group ( p > 0.05) , whereas the parameters measured at T1 and T2 were significantly better in the observation group than those in the control group ( p < 0.05). The post-surgery blood test showed that indicators of cardiocerebral hemodynamics were better in the observation group than those in the control group ( p < 0.05). Administration of dexmedetomidine in colorectal cancer surgery can provide effective cardiocerebral protection and it is worth popularizing in clinical practice.