  Among older people who are hospitalised , what is the predictive validity of the Downton Fall Risk Index ( DFRI) in relation to fall-related injury after discharge? What is the predictive validity of the DFRI among males and females in this setting? Prospective , longitudinal , observational study. All hospital admissions during 2012 at three geriatric clinics in the Stockholm County Council were monitored. Patients aged > 65 years who did not die during the admission and who lived in the Stockholm County Council region were included. The DFRI consists of five modules: previous falls , medication , sensory deficits , mental state , and gait. Three or more points indicate an increased fall risk. Data on DFRI , health status and medications were collected prior to discharge. Data regarding fall-related injuries were collected up to 6 months after discharge. Poisson multivariate regression analyses were conducted to evaluate the association between DFRI and fall-related injuries. In total , 6650 patients were analysed. The cut-off ≥ 3 points in the DFRI was significantly associated with fall-related injury when confounding variables were controlled for ( IRR 1.94 , 95 % CI 1.60 to 2.38). Among individual modules , only previous falls ( IRR 2.58 , 95 % CI 2.22 to 3.01) and unsafe gait ( IRR 1.79 , 95 % CI 1.53 to 2.09) were associated with fall-related injuries. Stratified analyses showed a higher risk ratio for men compared to women regarding the DFRI , but the test for an interaction effect was not significant. The risk of post-discharge fall-related injury is increased among older hospitalised people with an increased fall risk , according to the DFRI , especially those who had previous falls or unsafe gait. Although the DFRI tool is predictive , previous falls and gait are the measures that are most worthy of focus. ( Mojtaba M , Alinaghizadeh H , Rydwik E ( 2018) Downton Fall Risk Index during hospitalisation is associated with fall-related injuries after discharge: a longitudinal observational study. Journal of Physiotherapy 64: 172-177).