  The diagnosis of Alzheimer 's disease ( AD) in the oldest-old is complicated by the increasing prevalence of age-related neurofibrillary tangles , plaques and non-AD pathologies such as cerebrovascular disease ( CVD) , hippocampal sclerosis ( HS) , aging-related tau astrogliopathy ( ARTAG) , as well as TDP-43 and Lewy pathology. The contribution of these non-AD pathologies to dementia and cognitive resilience is unclear. We assessed the level of AD neuropathologic change ( ADNPC) and non-AD pathology in 185 participants enrolled in The 90 + Study with available cognitive assessments and brain tissue. Logistic regression models-adjusting for age , sex and education-determined the association between each pathology and dementia or between subgroups. 53 % had dementia , primarily AD or mixed AD; 23 % had cognitive impairment without dementia ( CIND); 23 % were not impaired. Both AD and non-AD pathology was prevalent. 100 % had tangles , 81 % had plaques , and both tangles and plaques associated with dementia. ARTAG distributed across limbic ( 70 %) , brainstem ( 39 %) and cortical regions ( 24 %). 49 % had possible CVD and 26 % had definite CVD , while HS was noted in 15 %. Cortical ARTAG , CVD and HS were each associated with dementia , but limbic and brainstem ARTAGs were not. TDP-43 and Lewy pathologies were found in 36 and 17 % and both associated with dementia. No pathology distinguished CIND and the not impaired. By NIA-AA criteria and dementia status , the cohort was subdivided into four groups: those with minimal ADNPC included the not dementia ( ND) and Not AD dementia groups; and those with significant ADNPC included the Resilient without dementia and AD dementia groups. Compared to the ND group , the Not AD dementia group had more HS , cortical ARTAG , TDP-43 , and Lewy pathology. Compared to the AD dementia group , the Resilient group had less CVD , no HS and less cortical ARTAG , TDP-43 and Lewy pathology. Our findings imply that reductions in non-AD pathologies including CVD contribute to cognitive resilience in the oldest-old.