  There is a relative paucity of studies that characterized racial disparities in revision total knee arthroplasty ( TKA). Therefore , this study was specifically conducted to evaluate the following: ( 1) incidence; ( 2) annual burden; ( 3) causes; and ( 4) age group distribution of revision TKA among different racial groups in the US sample population. The PearlDiver database was utilized to identify patients with knee osteoarthritis ( OA) who underwent primary then subsequent revision TKA from January 2007 to December 2014. Patients were stratified by race , and subset stratification by age was also performed. In each racial cohort , the overall incidence of revision TKA , annual revision burdens , and causes of revisions were calculated and compared. Additionally , a sub-analysis for the incidence of revision TKA stratified by age , in each cohort , was performed. Statistical analysis was performed to demonstrate revision incidence , burden , causes , and age distribution. Revision incidence and burden were the highest in the African-American cohort ( 12.4 % , 11.1 %) , ( p < 0.001) and was lowest in the Asian cohort ( 3.4 % , 3.3 %) ( p < 0.001). Across all cohorts , mechanical complications of the joint prosthesis were the most common cause of revision followed by periprosthetic joint infection , while contracture was the least common ( p < 0.001). Subset analysis by age revealed that the highest incidence of revision TKA was in patients less than 40 years old in the Caucasian cohort ( 27.1 %). The African-American ( 17.8 %) , other races ( 7.9 %) , and Hispanic ( 16.5 %) cohorts had the highest incidence of revision in the 40 to 64 years age range. Among the Asian ( 4.1 %) and Native American ( 9.7 %) cohorts , revision incidence was highest in patients older than 65 years. The present study demonstrated that racial disparities , highlighted by previous studies mainly in primary TKA , extend to influence revision TKA. Among the studied racial cohorts , race may affect outcomes and our results will help expand the current literature particularly on its role in revision TKA.