  The Legislative Decree n. 151 of 14 September 2015 lays down new provisions concerning the DPR 1124/65. The major developments occur with Article 53 of Presidential Decree 1124/65 , which transfer the obligation to send the medical certificate , attached to the report of accident and occupational disease , from the employer to the physician- `` every physician lends immediate assistance to an injured worker or to a worker that suffers from an occupational disease ''- using telematic systems , either directly or through the health facilities. There are however residual critical issues not easily overcome by the general pratictioner or by the physician not specialist in occupational medicine , because of the impossibility of knowing the real occupational causative agents of disease and the production cycle. So , the general practitioner can not properly study the link between damage to health and work. In addition , there are no indications for diseases not included by tables ( DM 09.04.2008) and lists ( DM 10.06.2014) , which should be evaluated about the possible occupational origin. Moreover , there is no indication of reporting for the pathologies present in the tables of occupational diseases , but not included in the lists of the DM 10.06.2014 , and for the diseases with nosological differences between the tables of occupational diseases and lists , as well as those that the doctor believed to be linked to exposure at work , although not included in the two documents ( tables or lists). To date , there are other technical critical issues that the legislation seems to overlook. In any of the laws reported ( and even in the recent legislation) is mentioned the key element essential to evaluate , according to technical and scientific criteria , the first occupational origin attribution of a suspected technopathy: the results of an appropriate and specific risk assessment of the recognized causative agent. We propose an operational way to create a technical and sustainable system of reporting suspicious technopathies. This system should be based on the figure and the role of occupational physician , both as a `` competent '' physician , according to the Legislative Decree n. 81/08 ( in Italy) , both as a doctor inserted in the community and hospital health services ( in Lombardy these services are organized in the Health Protection Agencies- ATS- and in the Operative Unit Hospital of Occupational Medicine ( UOOML of socio-territorial health companies- ASST). Complementarily , an organized reporting system should be based on risk assessment ( according to art. 17 of Legislative Decree n. 81/08). Other aims are to overcome outdated practices , create a constant channel of dialogue between the territorial and the hospital health centers , send and capture in a structured and efficient way reports of technopathy , track all occupational disease reports and create a dedicated archive.