  Basic examination and diagnostic skills in neurology are important for every graduating medical student. However , a majority of medical students consider neurology as complex and difficult to master. We evaluate the impact a learner-friendly , innovative simulation-based training programme has on long-term retention and delayed recall of neurological semiology amongst third-year medical students from the University Pierre et Marie Curie in Paris , France. The 2013 class received standard teaching in neurological semiology. The 2015 class who received the same standard teaching in neurological semiology were also invited to voluntarily participate in The Move , a mime-based role-play training programme of neurological semiology. During the Move , students were trained to simulate a patient with a neurological<disease> syndrome<disease> or the physician examining the patient. Students were evaluated with an assessment thirty months after their neurological rotation , including 15 questions to evaluate long-term retention of neurological semiology , and 10 to test background knowledge in general semiology. The semiology test was performed by 366/377 students from the 2013 class ( standard education group) and by 272/391 students from the 2015 class , among which 186 participated in The Move ( The Move group) and 86 did not ( standard education group). The mean neurological semiology score was higher in the 2015 class compared to the 2013 class ( p = 0.007) and remained so after adjustment for the general semiology performance ( p = 0.003). The adjusted mean neurological semiology score was 1.21/ 15 points higher ( 95 % CI 0.66 , 1.75) in The Move group compared to the standard education group , corresponding to a 14 % better ranking. The Move programme improves medical student 's long-term retention and delayed recall of neurological semiology. This learner-friendly interactive teaching may in turn enhance clinical proficiency of future physicians in neurological semiology.