  Hypertriglyceridaemia ( HTG) and reduction and dysfunction of high density lipoprotein ( HDL) are common lipid disturbances in chronic kidney disease ( CKD). HTG in CKD is caused mainly by the decreased efficiency of lipoprotein lipase ( LPL)- mediated very low density lipoprotein triglyceride ( VLDL-TG) lipolysis. It has not been clarified whether HDL dysfunction in CKD contributes directly to HTG development; thus , the aim of this study was to assess the impact of CKD progression on the ability of HDL to enhance LPL-mediated VLDL-TG lipolysis efficiency. VLDL was isolated from non-dialysis patients in CKD stages 3 and 4 and from non-CKD patients. The VLDL was incubated with LPL at the constant LPL: VLDL-TG ratio , in the absence or presence of HDL. After incubation , the VLDL was separated and the percentage ( %) of hydrolyzed TG was calculated. HDL presence increased the lipolysis efficiency of VLDL isolated from CKD and non-CKD patients , for the VLDL-TG > 50 mg/dl. Its effect was dependent on the VLDL-TG and HDL-cholesterol concentrations in the reaction mixtures: the higher the concentrations of VLDL-TG and HDL-cholesterol , the greater the effect. The positive impact of HDL on VLDL lipolysis was modified by CKD progression: the percentage of lipolyzed VLDL-TG in the presence of HDL decreased with a reduction in eGFR ( r = 0.43 , p = 0.009) , and for patients with stage 4 CKD , no positive impact of HDL on lipolysis was observed. The percentage of lipolyzed TG correlated negatively with apoE and apoCs content in VLDL , and positively with HDL-apoCII , as well as with VLDL and HDL apoCII/ apoCIII ratios. The progression of CKD was associated with unfavourable changes in VLDL and HDL composition; apoE and apoCs levels increased in VLDL with a decrease in eGFR whereas the HDL-cholesterol level decreased. The progression of CKD affects lipoprotein composition and properties , and modulates the positive impact of HDL on VLDL lipolysis efficiency. In CKD patients , HDL deficiency and dysfunction can directly affect hypertriglyceridaemia development.