  Primary bladder closure of classic bladder exstrophy ( CBE) is a major operation that occasionally requires intraoperative or postoperative ( within 72 h) blood transfusions. This study reported perioperative transfusion rates , risk factors for transfusion , and outcomes from a high-volume exstrophy center in primary bladder closure of CBE patients. A prospectively maintained , institutional exstrophy-epispadias complex database of 1305 patients was reviewed for primary CBE closures performed at the authors ' institution ( Johns Hopkins Hospital) between 1993 and 2017. Patient and surgical factors were analyzed to determine transfusion rates , risk factors for transfusions , and outcomes. Patients were subdivided into two groups based upon the time of closure: neonatal and delayed closure. A total of 116 patients had a primary bladder closure during 1993-2017. Seventy-three patients were closed in the neonatal period , and 43 were delayed closures. In total , 64 ( 55 %) patients received perioperative transfusions. No transfusion reactions were observed. Twenty-five transfusions were in the neonatal closure group , yielding a transfusion rate of 34 %. In comparison , 39 patients were transfused in the delayed closure group , giving a transfusion rate of 91 %. Pelvic osteotomy , delayed bladder closure , higher estimated blood<symptom> loss<symptom> ( EBL) , larger pubic diastasis , and longer operative time were all associated with blood transfusion. In multivariable logistic regression , pelvic osteotomy ( OR 5.4; 95 % CI 1.3-22.8; P < 0.001) , higher EBL-to-weight ratio ( OR 1.3; 95 % CI 1.1-1.6; P = 0.029) , and more recent years of primary closure ( OR 1.1; 95 % CI 1.0-1.2; P = 0.018) remained independent predictors of receiving a transfusion ( Summary Table). No adverse transfusion reactions or complications were observed. This was the first study from a single high-volume exstrophy center to explore factors that contribute to perioperative blood transfusions. Pelvic osteotomy as a risk factor was unsurprising , as the osteotomy may bleed both during and immediately after closure. However , it is important to use osteotomy for successful closure , despite the increased transfusion risk. The risks accompanying contemporary transfusions are minimal and osteotomies are imperative for successful bladder closure. More than half of CBE patients undergoing primary closure at a single institution received perioperative blood transfusions. While there was an association between transfusions and osteotomy , delayed primary closure , larger diastasis , increased operative time , and increased length of stay , only the use of pelvic osteotomy , higher EBL-to-weight ratio , and recent year of closure independently increased the odds of receiving a transfusion on multivariate analysis.