  Introduction In order to develop valid experimental human pain models , i.e. , models potentially reflecting mechanisms underlying certain expressions of clinical pain conditions , similarities and discrepancies of symptoms/signs must first and foremost be evaluated comparing the two. In a situation where symptoms/signs appear to be similar , a potential pitfall with surrogate models would be that pathophysiological mechanisms in clinical conditions and experimental models might differ , i.e. , one symptom/sign may be due to several different mechanisms. Symptoms and signs caused by intradermally injected capsaicin have been suggested to reflect aspects of the clinical phenomenology of neuropathic pain , e.g. , dynamic mechanical allodynia. Psychophysical characteristics of brush-evoked pain in the pain area in patients with painful peripheral neuropathy were compared with brush-evoked pain in the secondary hyperalgesic area in capsaicin-treated skin in patients and in healthy subjects using different temporo-spatial stimulus parameters. Method Nine patients were examined in the area of painful neuropathy and subsequently in the corresponding contralateral secondary site , i.e. , the secondary hyperalgesic area after an intradermal capsaicin injection. Nine healthy age- and sex-matched subjects were examined in a corresponding area after capsaicin injection. Brush-evoked allodynia was induced by lightly stroking 2 different distances of the skin 2 or 4 times with brushes of 2 different widths. Intensity and duration of brush-evoked allodynia was recorded using a computerized visual analogue scale. The total brush-evoked pain intensity , including aftersensation was calculated as the area under the curve. In addition , similarities and discrepancies in the selection of sensory-discriminative and affective descriptors of the painful experience have been surveyed in the area of neuropathy and in the area of secondary hyperalgesia. Results All patients reported brush-evoked pain in their area of painful neuropathy during all stimuli. Eight out of 9 patients reported brush-evoked pain in an area outside the flare in the capsaicin treated skin and only 3 out of 9 healthy subjects reported brush-evoked pain in an area outside the flare. Within patients there was no significant difference between sides regarding the influence of the various temporo-spatial stimulus parameters on the total brush-evoked pain intensity. Of all parameters tested , only increased number of strokes resulted in significantly higher brush-evoked pain intensity. The most commonly used sensory-discriminative descriptors during brush-evoked pain in the area of painful neuropathy and in the capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesic area in patients and controls were smarting and burning and for the affective descriptors troublesome and annoying. Conclusions Similarities were found regarding the influence of temporo-spatial stimulus parameters on brush-evoked allodynia in the capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesic area contralateral to the area of painful neuropathy and their influence when testing the area of neuropathic pain. Only 3/9 healthy subjects reported brush-evoked pain after capsaicin injection , a finding that may be related to this group reporting less spontaneous<symptom> pain<symptom> than the patients after injection. A hyperexcitable nervous system due to the contralateral clinical condition may also have a bearing on the frequent finding of capsaicin-induced allodynia in the patients ( 8/9). Implications The low prevalence of tactile allodynia in healthy volunteers makes the capsaicin model an unattractive strategy.