  Aabstract Background and purpose Women exhibit higher prevalence of most painful disorders. Several explanations have been proposed for this discrepancy , one being that endogenous pain modulatory pathways , which affect incoming nociceptive signals , act differently in men and women. A less efficient pain inhibitory system has been proposed as a contributing factor to explain why women exhibit higher prevalence of most painful disorders. The present study determined whether muscle<symptom> pain<symptom> , induced experimentally by electrical stimulation , is inhibited by a painful heat stimulus. This conditioned pain modulation ( CPM) paradigm was used to determine whether women show signs of reduced inhibition compared to men. Methods Forty self-reported healthy individuals ( 20 female , 20 male) participated in a cross-over design with painful and non-painful heat as a conditioning stimulus. Test stimuli were painful intramuscular electrical stimulation of the tibialis anterior muscle at two intensities; low ( 1.1 × pain threshold) and high ( 1.6 × pain threshold). Painful conditioning was contact heat ( 45-49 ° C) to the contralateral forearm. Nonpainful conditioning was contact heat at 35 °C. Ten test stimuli were delivered in three blocks ( before , during and after conditioning) in two sessions ( painful and non-painful conditioning). The women were tested during days 12-14 of the menstrual cycle. This interval corresponds to the ovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle , the interval during which women are reported to show the largest inhibitory effects. Results Test stimuli were rated significantly lower during painful conditioning , compared with before conditioning. This was found for both low and high test stimulus intensities. Anonspecific attenuation was seen during non-painful conditioning for the low test stimulus intensity. Test stimuli were rated significantly lower also 3 min after conditioning , compared with before conditioning. The inhibitory effects were not different between men and women. Similar findings were obtained also if six non-CPM-responders ( subjects rating test stimuli higher during conditioning than before conditioning) were excluded. Conclusions and implications The present findings indicate that painful contact heat inhibits electrically induced muscle<symptom> pain<symptom> and that inhibition was not different between men and women , when women were tested in the interval 12-14 days after their last menstruation. Some inhibition of muscle<symptom> pain<symptom> was seen during non-painful conditioning , indicating that nonspecific inhibitory effects were triggered. Also the nonspecific inhibitory effects were similar in men and women.