  Bilateral posterior semicircular canal ( PSCC) occlusion is a successful treatment of bilateral benign positional vertigo<symptom> ( BPV) refractory to particle repositioning manoeuvers. Little about the effects on the vestibular ocular reflex ( VOR) postoperatively , which is the intent of this study. All patients who underwent bilateral posterior canal occlusion for BPV at the University Health Network by the senior author ( J.A.R.) between 2001 and 2017 with pre- and postoperative vestibular testing were included in the study.All patients underwent a detailed history and neuro-otological examination including dynamic visual acuity ( DVA). Laboratory testing including video head impulse testing or magnetic scleral search coil testing , video nystagmography , cervical and ocular vestibular evoked myogenic potentials and audiological testing before and following their procedure at 1 , 6 , and 12 months postoperatively. Three patients were included in the study , all females , with a mean age of 41 years ( range 36-44 yr). All patients had developed bilateral BPV after head trauma. Mean length of follow-up was 26 months ( range 6-84 mo). All patients demonstrated a reduction in the vertical VOR of between 0.37 and 0.57/ s at 1 month postocclusion. Between 6 and 12 months postoperatively , an improvement in their vertical VOR between 0.45 and 0.75/ s was observed. Clinically , all patients reported complete resolution of their positional vertigo<symptom> with a negative Dix-Hallpike bilaterally at follow-up. None reported oscillopsia , which was confirmed with DVA testing. Bilateral PSCC occlusion results in a reduction in the vertical VOR of the PSCCs.Over a 6 to 12 month time period improvement in the VOR gain can be demonstrated , most likely due to central compensation. There is clinical correlation with improvement in DVA testing. Bilateral PSCC occlusion is a safe and effective treatment for bilateral BPV proved refractory to particle repositioning manoeuvers.