  Intensive production systems require high-yield genetics as obtained in Bos taurus x Bos indicus<pathogen> crossbreeding. Generally , high-producing taurine cattle are more susceptible to parasites and heat stress. This study evaluated animal performance , heat-stress measurement ( infrared temperatures) and internal parasite infection with daily weight gain in heifers from two genetic groups ( Nelore and F1- Nelore x Angus) reared in two forage production systems ( with or without crop-livestock system) during one year. The main objectives were determine the relationship between infrared measures and animal performance and whether it differ between genetic groups and environments. Thirty-six heifers were randomly assigned to two forage production systems , one considered as high-input system with crop-livestock system and other exclusive livestock system considered as low-input. At each 28 days , infrared temperatures ( IR) , weight and internal parasite infection ( fecal egg count) were measured. The temperatures of the eye , snout , forehead , dewlap , body , ground and squeeze chute were determined. F1 heifers had higher weight gain than Nelore ( P < 0.05) and both did not differ in internal parasite infection ( P > 0.05). F1 heifers had higher IR than Nelore ( P < 0.05). The main body points that differentiate between genetic groups were dewlap , forehead and eye. Higher dewlap IR temperature ( DW) was associated with higher average daily gain ( ADG) during dry season ( independently of genetic groups) ( ADG = -0.755 + 0.032 * DW; R2 = 0.44). Otherwise , the IR temperatures had a negative relationship with ADG during rainy season and low forehead IR temperature was related to higher average daily gain ( ADG = 1.81- 0.033 * forehead; R2 = 0.12 for F1 animals and ADG = 1.46- 0.025 * forehead; R2 = 0.07 for Nelore). The infrared temperatures were more related to animal performance during the dry season , which had high temperature and low humidity. The infrared temperatures were able to identify the animal response to the environment challenge. Animals with higher temperatures ( dewlap and forehead) had higher daily gain during the dry season.