  Background The `` gold standard '' for pain relief after thoracotomy has been thoracic epidural analgesia ( TEA). The studies comparing TEA with paravertebral block ( PVB) and recent reviews recommend PVB as a novel , safer method than TEA. Methods A systematic search of the Cochrane and PubMed databases for prospective , randomized trials ( RCTs) comparing TEA and PVB for post-thoracotomy analgesia was done. We assessed how TEA and PVB were performed , methods of randomization , assessment of pain relief , and complications. Abstracts only were excluded. Results Ten studies were included , comprising 224 patients randomized to TEA , 243 to PVB. The studies were heterogeneous. Therefore , a systematic narrative review with our evaluations is presented. Only 3/10 trials reported the method of randomization. Pain during coughing was reported in only 5/10 , pain assessment not specified in 5/10. Only 1/10 trials found PVB superior to TEA , but placed TEA catheters too low ( < T7). TEA was superior to PVB in 1/10 , during first 1.5 days. PVB and TEA were equally effective in 8/10. 5/10 trials found PVB had less hypotension<symptom> or urinary<symptom> retention<symptom>. None of the studies used appropriate and optimal TEA: TEA was started after end of surgery in half , catheters placed too low ( 2/10) , too high ( 1/10) , not reported in ( 1/10). 7/10 infused local anaesthetic only , 2/10 added fentanyl , 1/10 added morphine , and none added adrenaline. PVB infusions had higher concentration of bupivacaine ( 5 mg/ml) in 2/10 , 1/10 added fentanyl , 1/10 added ornipressin. Loading doses were higher in 5/10 , and with more concentrated solutions in 5/10 of PVB than in the TEA group. Conclusions 10 heterogeneous , mostly small , studies comparing TEA and PVB for post-thoracotomy analgesia do not allow conclusions on which method has superior analgesic efficacy and safety. The main methodological problem was that none of the studies use optimal thoracic epidural analgesia , with siting of catheters inappropriate in some and the epidural infusion containing too concentrated local anaesthetic because opioid and adrenaline were not added. Anatomical considerations ( the paravertebral space comprises parts of the epidural space and contains spinal cord arteries) and personally experienced complications with PVB ( paraplegia<symptom>) convince us that PVB must have higher risk of , infrequent but serious , spinal cord complications than TEA. Percutaneous PVB may puncture pleura and lung. Some surgeons expressed satisfaction with PVB because the method omits costly acute<symptom> pain<symptom> services for monitoring on surgical wards and saves time in the operating room. They are , however , bound to experience serious complications from PVB , sooner or later. To our knowledge , optimally conducted epidural analgesia has not been compared with PVB. Current literature and our experience with both techniques for up to four decades , indicate that PVB may be an alternative for post-thoracotomy pain when TEA is infeasible for various patient-related reasons ( Breivik et al. , 2009). Severely disturbed haemostasis is a contraindication for PVB and TEA. Higher concentrations of local anaesthetics are needed to obtain intercostal nerve blocks and epidural analgesia with PVB , risking local anaesthetic intoxication. Robust monitoring regimen for effects and adverse effects is as important for PVB as for TEA.