  Classifying different subtypes of neurons in deep brain structures is a challenge and is crucial to better understand brain function. Understanding the diversity of neurons in the globus pallidus ( GP) , a brain region positioned to influence afferent and efferent information processing within basal ganglia , could help to explain a variety of brain functions. We present a classification of neurons from the GP using electrophysiological data from wild-type mice and confirmation using transgenic mice. This work will help researchers to identify specific neuronal subsets in the GP of wild-type mice when transgenic mice with labelled neurons are lacking. Classification of the extensive neuronal diversity in the brain is fundamental for neuroscience. The globus pallidus external segment ( GPe) , also referred to as the globus pallidus in rodents , is a large nucleus located in the core of the basal ganglia whose circuitry is implicated in action control , decision-making and reward. Although considerable progress has been made in characterizing different GPe neuronal subtypes , no work has directly attempted to characterize these neurons in non-transgenic mice. Here , we provide data showing the degree of overlap in expression of neuronal PAS domain protein ( Npas1) , LIM homeobox 6 ( Lhx6) , parvalbumin ( PV) and transcription factor FoxP2 biomarkers in mouse GPe neurons. We used an unbiased statistical method to classify neurons based on electrophysiological properties from nearly 200 neurons from C57BL/6J mice. In addition , we examined the subregion distribution of the neuronal subtypes. Cluster analysis using firing rate and hyperpolarization-induced membrane potential sag variables revealed three distinct neuronal clusters: type 1 , characterized by low firing rate and small sag potential; type 2 , with low firing rate and larger sag potential; and type 3 , with high firing rate and small sag potential. We used other electrophysiological variables and data from marker-expressing neurons to evaluate the clusters. We propose that the GPe GABAergic neurons should be classified into three subgroups: arkypallidal , low-firing prototypical and high-firing prototypical neurons. This work will help researchers identify GPe neuron subtypes when transgenic mice with labelled neurons can not be used.