  In 2008 , it was introduced by the Legislature legislation which provided the inclusion of Article 28 , paragraph 1 of Legislative Decree. N. 81/2008 , which stipulates for businesses and public authorities a duty to assess , among a variety of risks that could threaten the safety and health of workers ( chemical , biological risk , etc) and also the work-related stress. The implementation of this decree is , therefore , specified as `` work-related stress '' as one of the subjects of mandatory assessment risks. The decree , then entrusted to the Permanent Consultative Commission for health and safety at work the task to `` prepare the necessary information for the risk assessment of work-related stress '' , subsequently issued on 17/11/2010 in the form of a `` methodological path which represents the minimum level of implementation of the obligation ''. In light of this regulatory framework , we established our pilot study , with the objective of analyzing a growing occupational discomfort. This objective has been diffused and palpable , but very difficult to define , in a sample of employees of the Judiciary Lazio Offices. The study was commissioned by Law Committee of Guarantee of Equal Opportunity Enhancement of Welfare Work and those against Discrimination ( CUG) of the Judicial Offices Romans of the Court of Appeal of Rome also contributed to its realization. The data collected from the administration of two standardized questionnaires was analyzed ( Questionnaire-gauge instrument INAIL and the SF-12 v1). More evidently in this pilot study , there was a serious problem in the organizational dimension , in specific , in Managerial Support. Just as it appears , the study sample is perceived `` less healthy '' , both physically and mentally , than the Italian normative sample. Although the sample is only a part of the study population , 26 % of workers of the Judicial Offices Romans , the data obtained shows however , from both a quantitative and qualitative view point , a significant occupational stress and suggests the need to broaden our search in order to find different possible solutions to improve the condition of workers and , consequently , the degree of citizens ' satisfaction that caters to this delicate area of expertise.