  Zirconium- a bioinert metal- in comparison with titanium implants , offers a variety of potential advantages for use in the esthetic area of dentistry due to its tooth-like color. Zirconium dental implants are considered to be an alternative method of treatment to conventional titanium dental implants for patients with a thin gingival biotype. This study was designed to study the bone tissue response to new zirconia implants with modified surfaces in comparison with commercially available titanium dental implants and commercially available zirconia implants. The study was carried out on a group of 12 16-month-old minipigs. New zirconia implants with 3 different surfaces were used: M1- blasted surface , M2- etched surface and M3- blasted and etched surface ( Maxon Motor GmbH , Sexau , Germany) and compared to conventional titanium implants with an sandblasted and acid etched ( SLA) surface ( Straumann GmbH , Freiburg , Germany) and commercially available zirconia implants ( Ziterion GmbH , Uffenheim , Germany). Histological and micro-computed tomopgraphy ( micro-CT) evaluation was performed. In the micro-CT assessment , the average bone-implant contact ( BIC) of the zirconia experimental implants was 41.44 %. In particular , the BIC % for M1 was 39.72 % , for M2 it was 43.97 % , and for M3- 40.63 %; in the control group it was 49.63 % and 27.77 % for ceramic and titanium control implants , respectively. The intra-group analysis showed no statistically important differences between the BIC values for implants in any group. However , the analysis of BIC for different regions of the same implant showed statistically significant differences in all of the groups between the results of the threaded region and the neck and the apex. The results of our study suggest that zirconia implants with modified surfaces display features of osseointegration similar to those of titanium implants. These results are promising in using zirconia implants for dental applications in the future.