  Postoperative delirium<symptom> complicates approximately 15 to 20 % of major operations in patients at least 65 yr old and is associated with adverse outcomes and increased resource utilization. Furthermore , patients with postoperative delirium<symptom> might also be at risk of developing long-term postoperative cognitive dysfunction. One potentially modifiable variable is use of intraoperative processed electroencephalogram to guide anesthesia. This systematic review and meta-analysis examines the relationship between processed electroencephalogram monitoring and postoperative delirium<symptom> and cognitive dysfunction. A systematic search for randomized controlled trials was conducted using Ovid MEDLINE , PubMed , EMBASE , Cochrane Library , and Google search using the keywords processed electroencephalogram , Bispectral Index , postoperative delirium<symptom> , postoperative cognitive dysfunction. Screening and data extraction were conducted by two independent reviewers , and risk of bias was assessed. Postoperative delirium<symptom> combined-effect estimates calculated with a fixed-effects model were expressed as odds ratios with 95 % CIs. Thirteen of 369 search results met inclusion criteria. Postoperative cognitive dysfunction data were excluded in meta-analysis because of heterogeneity of outcome measurements; results were discussed descriptively. Five studies were included in the quantitative postoperative delirium<symptom> analysis , with data pooled from 2,654 patients. The risk of bias was low in three studies and unclear for the other two. The use of processed electroencephalogram-guided anesthesia was associated with a 38 % reduction in odds for developing postoperative delirium<symptom> ( odds ratio = 0.62; P < 0.001; 95 % CI , 0.51 to 0.76). Processed electroencephalogram-guided anesthesia was associated with a decrease in postoperative delirium<symptom>. The mechanism explaining this association , however , is yet to be determined. The data are insufficient to assess the relationship between processed electroencephalogram monitoring and postoperative cognitive dysfunction.