  Purpose To examine and compare dispensing of prescribed analgesics between young people with parents from countries with a Muslim majority and those with parents born in Norway. Methods Our study-population constituted 11,542 adolescents from the Norwegian Youth Health Surveys conducted in 2000-2003. Users and non-users of prescribed analgesics at baseline were analysed separately. Self-reported information on their parents ' birth country was used to classify them into one of the three predefined groups: Norway , countries with a Muslim majority or others. To study and compare dispensing of prescribed analgesics , data from the youth surveys were linked to the Norwegian Prescription Database ( NorPD) 2004-2007. Dispensed analgesics studied were antiinflammatory and antirheumatic products ( non-steroid) , opioids and other analgesics and antipyretics. Results Among non-users of prescribed analgesics at baseline , 34 % of all males with parents born in Norway received prescribed analgesics at least once during 2004-2007 , compared to 36 % in the group with parents from countries with a Muslim majority. The proportions of females receiving prescribed analgesics were about 44 % in both of the two previously mentioned groups. Among users of prescribed analgesics at baseline , the proportion of individuals who were dispensed prescribed analgesics in 2004-2007 was generally higher than for those that were non-users at baseline. Both males and females with parents from countries with a Muslim majority reported more pain compared to those with parents born in Norway. No statistical differences were detected between participants with parents from countries with a Muslim majority compared to those with parents born in Norway in terms of prescribed analgesics dispensed or total amount of analgesics dispensed in 2004-2007. For the dispensing of all analgesics in 2004-2007 the adjusted OR for having parents from countries with a Muslim majority compared to parents born in Norway was 1.02 ( 0.87-1.21) among non-users of prescribed analgesics at baseline and 0.82 ( 0.57-1.16) among users. Conclusions There were no differences in the dispensing of prescribed analgesics between young people with parents born in countries with a Muslim majority and those with parents born in Norway. Nor did the amount of prescribed analgesics differ between these groups.