  Background and aims The ultraviolet-B ( UVB) inflammatory model is a well-established model of inflammatory<symptom> pain<symptom>. This study investigated whether UVB-induced cutaneous inflammation<symptom> would enhance pain responses from the underlying deep somatic areas. Methods Skin inflammation<symptom> was induced , in 24 healthy volunteers , by UVB irradiation ( three times of the individual minimal erythema UVB dose) in square-shaped areas on the forearm and lower back. Assessments of cutaneous blood flow , pin-prick thresholds , pressure pain<symptom> thresholds and tolerance , stimulus-response functions relating graded pressure stimulations and pain intensity ( visual analogue scale , VAS) were performed within and outside the irradiated area. Results Twenty-four hours after UVB irradiation , a significant increase in superficial blood flow in the irradiated skin area was demonstrated compared with baseline ( P < 0.01) indicating that inflammation<symptom> was induced. Compared with baseline , UVB irradiation significantly reduced the pin-prick thresholds , pressure pain<symptom> thresholds and tolerance within and outside of the irradiated area ( P < 0.05). The stimulus-response function was left-shifted compared with baseline both within and outside the irradiated area ( P < 0.05) with a more pronounced left-shift within the irradiated area ( P < 0.01). Application of topical anaesthesia 24h after irradiation in 5 subjects , both within and outside the irradiated area , could only increase the pin-prick thresholds outside the irradiated area. Conclusion The UVB irradiation of the skin not only provokes cutaneous primary and secondary hyper-algesia but also causes hyperalgesia to blunt pressure stimulations 24h after the UVB exposure. Implications The presented UVB model can be used as a translational model from animals into healthy subjects. This model can potentially be used to screen drug candidates with anti-inflammatory properties in early stages of drug development.