  The World Health Organization 's International Classification of Functioning , Disability , and Health framework , Children and Youth Version ( ICF-CY) , provides a valuable method of conceptualizing the multidomain difficulties experienced by children born very preterm ( VP). Reviews investigating motor outcomes at preschool age across ICF-CY domains are lacking. The purpose of this review is to identify and compare motor outcomes of 3- to 6-year-old children born VP and children born full-term ( FT) within the ICF-CY framework. Four electronic databases and reference lists of included and key articles were searched. Studies comparing motor outcomes of 3- to 6-year-old children born VP ( < 32 weeks ' gestation or birth weight < 1500 g) with peers born FT were included. Two independent authors extracted data and completed quality assessments. Thirty-six studies were included. Activity motor performance of children born VP was consistently poorer compared with peers born FT: standardized mean difference ( SMD) was -0.71 ( 95 % CI = -0.80 to -0.61; 14 studies , 2056 participants). Furthermore , children born VP had higher relative risk ( RR) of motor impairment ( RR = 3.39; 95 % CI = 2.68 to 4.27; 9 studies , 3466 participants). Body structure and function outcomes were largely unable to be pooled because assessment tools varied too widely. However , children born VP had higher RR of any neurological<symptom> dysfunction<symptom> ( Touwen Neurological Examination) ( RR = 4.55; 95 % CI = 1.20 to 17.17; 3 studies , 1363 participants). There were no participation outcome data. Limitations include the lack of consistent assessment tools used in VP follow-up at preschool age and the quality of the evidence. Children born VP experience significant motor impairment across ICF-CY activity and body structure and function domains at preschool age compared with peers born FT. Evidence investigating participation in VP preschool-age populations relative to children born at term is sparse , requiring further research.