  African American ( AA) people with systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE) are at high morbidity and mortality risk , and they often require multiple medications. Low medication adherence is a highly prevalent , multidimensional problem associated with poor outcomes in people with SLE. Depression<symptom> , a predictor of low adherence in people with chronic conditions , has been described in over 35 % of AAs with SLE. We hypothesized that depressive symptoms would be increasingly associated with low adherence in this population. Research subjects predominantly belong to the Georgians Organized Against Lupus cohort , a population-based cohort of predominantly AA individuals with SLE in the Atlanta metropolitan area. Medication adherence and severity of depressive symptoms were measured using validated self-reported tools: the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale and the 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire , respectively. We used univariate and multivariate logistic regression to examine the odds ratios of low medication adherence across individuals with increasing severity of depressive symptoms. Among 632 AA SLE participants , 336 ( 54 %) reported low medication adherence and 217 ( 34.6 %) reported `` moderate '' or `` severe '' depressive symptoms. In univariate logistic regression , significant risk factors for low adherence were depressive symptoms , low self-efficacy , poor satisfaction with care , female sex , younger age , hurried patient-physician communication , poorer shared decision-making , less compassionate physician communication style , poor/fair health , and higher disease activity score. In multivariate regression , younger age , female sex , and more severe depressive symptoms were associated with low medication adherence. This is the first study to examine factors associated with low medication adherence among a population-based cohort of AA individuals with SLE. Depression<symptom> was a strong correlate of low medication adherence. Mental health interventions aiming to address and treat depression<symptom> may increase medication adherence.