  To analysis the expression of VEGF in gastric carcinoma cell and tumor tissue , our study determined the relationship between the expression of VEGF and tumor incidence , metastasis and prognosis in human gastric carcinoma. Treatment of ZD6474 at dose of 30 μmol/L was performed in gastric carcinoma cell BGC823. qPCR and Western-blot were used to analysis the mRNA and protein expression of VEGF. MTT , wound<disease> healing and Transwell experiments were conducted to study the effect of VEGF on tumor incidence , metastasis and prognosis. Sixty patients with gastric cancer were selected as the gastric cancer group , and 30 patients with gastric ulcer<disease> receiving main gastric resection were selected as control group. The survival curve of patients with gastric cancer in five years was recorded. The correlation between expression of VEGF to incidence , metastasis and prognosis of gastric cancer was evaluated by Cox multifactor regression. The mRNA and protein expression of VEGF in treatment group were significantly lower than that of control group ( P < 0.01). The results of MTT , wound<disease> healing and Transwell experiments were showed that the cell proliferation , migration and invasion capacity in treatment group were significantly reduced compared to that of the control group ( P < 0.01). The 5-year survival rate for patients with VEGF positive expression was significantly decreased compared to the patients with VEGF expression negative ( P < 0.01). The tumor size , differentiation , lymph node metastasis and tumor stage were statistically related to VEGF level ( P < 0.05). The results of Cox regression multifactor analysis showed that lymph node metastasis , tumor staging and the expression of VEGF were significantly associated to the prognosis of gastric cancer patients ( P < 0.05). Our data demonstrated that the expression of VEGF was significantly related to the tumor incidence , metastasis and prognosis of patients with gastric cancer , which provides new leads to the diagnosis of gastric cancer.