  This is a prospective study , first to compare the frequency of depressive symptoms in stroke survivors treated , and non-treated , with intravenous thrombolysis and second , to explore relationships between post-stroke depression<symptom> ( PSD) and stroke treatment modalities , taking into account other possible determinants of PSD , including post-traumatic stress symptoms. Groups of 73 thrombolysed and 73 non-thrombolysed patients matched for age and gender were examined at 3 and 12 months after discharge. PSD was assessed using the Beck Depression<symptom> Inventory. Post-traumatic stress symptoms ( PTSS) , disability and social support were assessed with the Impact of Event Scale-Revised , the Barthel Index and the Berlin Social Support Scale. At 3 months , PSD was present in 23.3 % of the thrombolysed and 31.5 % in the non-thrombolysed groups ( p = 0.265). At 12 months , the frequencies were 29.2 and 20.6 % ( p = 0.229). Logistic regression of the combined group of thrombolysed and non-thrombolysed patients indicated that at 3 months , the adjusted predictors of PSD were disability ( OR 24.35) , presence of PTSS ( OR 9.32) , low social support ( OR 3.68) and non-thrombolytic treatment ( OR 3.19). At 12 months , the predictors were disability ( OR 15.78) and low education ( OR 3.61). The use of a questionnaire for the detection of depression<symptom> , the relatively small sample size and a significant drop-out rate could limit the interpretation of these results. ( 1) Thrombolysed and non-thrombolysed stroke survivors had similar frequency of depressive symptoms although the thrombolysed patients had more severe neurological deficits in the acute phase. It can be assumed that if thrombolysis had not been used , depressive symptoms would have been more frequent. ( 2) Lack of the rt-PA treatment was associated with three-time greater odds of screening for PSD at 3 months post-stroke , after adjustment for other PSD correlates. ( 3) Therefore , thrombolytic therapy seems to have a positive , but indirect , effect on patients ' mood , especially in the first months after stroke. ( 4) All stroke patients , irrespective of the method of treatment , should be monitored for the presence of