  To compare the maternal and the perinatal variables of the patients with pregnancy associated breast cancer ( PABC) and the pregnant patients without breast cancer ( PNABC) , we retrospectively included 13 PABC cases and 66.265 PNABC patients. The PABC patients presented a lower mean gestational age at their delivery and had higher induction of labour and prematurity rates. A diagnosis was performed before stage III in 77 % of the cases. The overall survival was 90 %; moreover , we collected 16 manuscripts when gathering data from 1581 patients with PABC. The mean follow-up time was 70 ± 8 months. The mean maternal age at diagnosis was 34 years old. Most of the patients were at their second trimester of pregnancy. The gestational age at delivery was 35 weeks. A mastectomy was the most frequently used surgical approach. PABC should be managed by a multidisciplinary team , ensuring there is a rigorous oncological treatment , with foetal well-being. IMPACT STATEMENT What is already known on this subject? The malignant breast tumours diagnosed during pregnancy , or 1 year after a delivery are increasing , there is evidence supporting the treatment during a pregnancy with maternal and foetal safety. A PABC should be managed by a multidisciplinary team in a referral centre , ensuring that there is a rigorous oncological treatment with foetal well-being. What do the results of this study add? Our results show that the PABC patients in our centre had a mean maternal age older than the PNABC women , as well as a higher percentage of the induction of labour and prematurity. 48 Cancer was usually diagnosed in early stages , and the most common type was ductal infiltrating , with positive hormonal receptors. For those patients continuing their pregnancies , a mastectomy plus a lymphadenectomy was the most frequent chemotherapy , and was usually administered in the third trimester of pregnancy. What are the implications of these findings for future clinical practice and/or further research? Moreover , the number of publications concerning PABC has grown , series are still scarce. We understand the limitations of the low number of the cases on our population , but this study is the first which compare the PABC with the PNABC patients , allowing to describe and compare the obstetrical and perinatal variables. Finally , we consider it is of a paramount importance to create an international database to register in a prospective way all of the cases of PABC to increase our knowledge in this field.