  Neural stimulation has widespread applications in investigating brain functions , restoring impaired neural functions , and treating numerous neurological/psychiatric diseases. Use of infrared pulses to stimulate neurons ( infrared neural stimulation) offers a direct and non-invasive technique. Recent research has demonstrated that transient heating associated with the absorption of infrared light by the local aqueous medium around the cell membrane can stimulate nerves. One mechanism for this stimulation is due to a thermally induced increase in the membrane electrical capacitance , which causes cell depolarization as well as action potential production under certain physiological conditions. A theoretical and computational model helps better understand the mechanism of thermally induced electrical capacitance changes and optimize the stimulus parameters. In this article , we develop the existing theoretical models for membrane electrical capacitance and its thermally induced changes. We improve the formulation of Gouy-Chapman-Stern theory by Genet et al. and Shapiro et al. with the addition of a diffuse layer to the electrical double layer and by modifying the relation of Stern layer capacitance , to calculate the membrane capacitive charge and capacitive current. We also present a new method to calculate the membrane electrical capacitance and the rate of its thermally induced changes. In our calculations , two new factors are considered including the temperature dependence of the surface charge density and the hydrophobic core dielectric constant of the lipid bilayer. Our developed model predicts rates of 0.3 and 0.26 %/ °C for the thermally induced capacitance changes of the artificial lipid bilayer under two different sets of conditions previously reported by Shapiro et al. and Carvalho-de-Souza et al. , respectively. Our model is in very good agreement with the corresponding experimental values given by these groups. The presented model is also able to calculate the membrane capacitive currents and investigate the voltage dependence of this current.