  The tilt-rest skill consists of tipping the wheelchair back and allowing it to rest against a solid object with the wheel locks applied ( e.g. , for pressure redistribution , neck comfort or hands-free activities). The objective of this study was to determine the proportion of experienced manual wheelchair users who are aware of this skill and who can perform it. We conducted a cross-sectional survey of 49 manual wheelchair users using a questionnaire developed for the purpose. The tilt-rest skill was attempted by those who reported that they were capable of performing it. Participants ' mean ( SD) age was 55.1 ( 18.2) years , 38 ( 77.6 %) were male , their median ( IQR) duration of wheelchair use was 2 ( 7.2) years and their mean ( SD) daily time spent in the wheelchair was 9.5 ( 4.6) hours. Twenty-seven ( 55.1 %) participants were aware of the skill , 19 ( 38.8 %) reported being able to perform the skill and 16 of 47 ( 34.0 %) were able to demonstrate the skill. Multivariate modelling with the question `` Can you complete the tilt-rest skill? '' as the dependent measure revealed an inverse relationship with age- Odds Ratio ( 95 % Confidence Interval) of 0.476 ( 0.293 , 0.774) ( p = .0028) for each 10 year increase in age. Only just over half of manual wheelchair users are aware of the tilt-rest skill and one-third of users can perform it. Older people are less likely to report being able to complete the skill. These findings have implications for wheelchair skills training during the wheelchair-provision process. Implications for Rehabilitation Only just over half of manual wheelchair users are aware of the tilt-rest skill and only about one-third of users can perform it. Older people are less likely to report being able to complete the skill. These findings have clinical implications for wheelchair skills training during the , specifically that clinicians responsible for manual wheelchair-provision process should ensure that appropriate wheelchair users have the opportunity to learn this skill.