  Embryonic stem ( ES) cells have the potential to differentiate into any of the three germ layers ( endoderm , mesoderm , or ectoderm) , and can generate many lineages for regenerative medicine. ES cell culture in vitro has long been the subject of widespread concerns. Classically , mouse ES cells are maintained in serum and leukemia<disease> inhibitory factor ( LIF)- containing medium. However , under serum/LIF conditions , cells show heterogeneity in morphology and the expression profile of pluripotency-related genes , and are mostly in a metastable state. Moreover , cultured ES cells exhibit global hypermethylation , but naïve ES cells of the inner cell mass ( ICM) and primordial germ cells ( PGCs) are in a state of global hypomethylation. The hypomethylated state of ICM and PGCs is closely associated with their pluripotency. To improve mouse ES cell culture methods , we have recently developed a new method based on the selectively combined utilization of two small-molecule compounds to maintain the DNA hypomethylated and pluripotent state. Here , we present that the co-treatment of vitamin C ( Vc) and PD0325901 can erase about 90 % of 5-methylcytosine ( 5mC) at 5 days in mouse ES cells. The generated 5mC content is comparable to that in PGCs. The mechanistic investigation shows that PD0325901 up-regulates Prdm14 expression to suppress Dnmt3b ( de novo DNA methyltransferase) and Dnmt3l ( the cofactor of Dnmt3b) , by reducing de novo 5mC synthesis. Vc facilitates the conversion of 5mC to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine ( 5hmC) catalyzed mainly by Tet1 and Tet2 , indicating the involvement of both passive and active DNA demethylations. Moreover , under Vc/PD0325901 conditions , mouse ES cells show homogeneous morphology and pluripotent state. Collectively , we propose a novel and chemical-synergy culture method for achieving DNA hypomethylation and maintenance of pluripotency in mouse ES cells. The small-molecule chemical-dependent method overcomes the major shortcomings of serum culture , and holds promise to generate homogeneous ES cells for further clinical applications and researches.