  A number of preclinical rodent models have been developed in an effort to recapitulate injury mechanisms and identify potential therapeutics for traumatic brain injury ( TBI) , which is a major cause of death and long-term disability in the United States. However , the lack of restorative treatments for TBI has led to considerable criticism of current preclinical therapeutic development strategies , namely the translatability of widely-used rodent models to human patients. The use of large animal models , such as the pig , with more comparable brain anatomy and physiology to humans may enhance the translational capacity of current preclinical animal models. The objective of this study was to develop and characterize a graded piglet TBI model with quantitative pathological features at the cellular , tissue , and functional level that become more prominent with increasing TBI severity. A graded TBI was produced by controlled cortical impact ( CCI) in `` toddler-aged '' Landrace piglets by increasing impact velocity and/or depth of depression<symptom> to 2m/s; 6 mm , 4m/s; 6 mm , 4m/s; 12 mm , or 4m/s; 15 mm , producing a range of neural injury responses that corresponded to injury severity. Quantitative gait analysis was performed pre-TBI and 1 , 3 , and 7 days post-TBI , and piglets were sacrificed 7 days post-TBI. Increasing impact parameters correlated to increases in lesion<symptom> size with piglets that sustained a 6 mm depth of depression<symptom> exhibiting significantly smaller lesions<symptom> than piglets that sustained a depth of depression<symptom> of 12 mm or 15 mm. Similarly , the extent of neuronal loss , astrogliosis/astrocytosis , and white matter damage became more prominent as CCI parameters were increased. These cellular and tissue-level changes correlated with motor function deficits including swing/stance time , stride velocity , and 2 vs. 3-limb support. The piglet TBI model described here could serve as a translational platform for studying TBI sequelae across injury severities and identifying novel therapeutics.