  Radical cystectomy currently remains the standard of care for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. However , surgery can be associated with considerable morbidity and mortality , including the removal of the bladder. An alternative strategy is to preserve the bladder through concurrent chemoradiation following a maximal transurethral resection of the tumor. National protocols using a bladder-preservation approach have demonstrated disease-specific outcomes comparable to radical cystectomy in selected patients , but these results have not been replicated in previously reported population-based series. Here , we describe an outcomes analysis of patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer treated with either radical surgery or bladder-preserving chemoradiation ( BPCRT) for those patients meeting BPCRT criterion using the National Cancer Database ( NCDB). Using the NCDB , patients with American Joint Commission on Cancer clinical T2-3 , N0 , M0 urothelial carcinoma diagnosed between 2004 and 2013 were included for analysis. Only patients treated with definitive intent with either radical cystectomy or concurrent chemotherapy and radiation after a maximal transurethral tumor resection were included. Propensity-score matching was used. Among 8454 eligible patients , 7276 ( 86 %) underwent radical cystectomy , and 1178 ( 14 %) underwent BPCRT. Patients undergoing BPCRT were significantly older ( median age , 77 vs. 68 y; P < 0.001) and had higher Charlson-Deyo comorbidity scores ( P = 0.002). Using propensity-matched analysis , 1002 patients remained in each cohort , and there was no significant difference in survival found between the 2 cohorts ( median overall survival , 2.7 vs. 3.0 y ( P = 0.20); 4-year overall survival , 39.1 % and 42.6 % ( P = 0.15) , for BPCRT and surgery , respectively). In addition , the hazard ratio ( HR) of surgery versus BPCRT decreased over time , with an initial HR of 1.27 favoring BPCRT which decreased by a factor of 0.85 per year. From 2004 to 2013 , ∼ 14 % of patients from the NCDB who potentially met bladder-preservation criteria underwent the procedure. Our propensity-matched analysis is the only report of its kind to demonstrate similar survival outcomes with bladder preservation when patients are properly selected. This study is also the first to demonstrate a dynamic HR between radical surgery and BPCRT over time.