  Just-in-time training ( JITT) is a method of simulation-based training where the training occurs within the clinical environment in a concise manner. Just-in-time training has shown effects at the learner , patient , and system-wide levels. We evaluated a JITT curriculum for the procedures of intraosseous ( IO) needle placement and defibrillator use in a pediatric emergency department ( ED) by comparing the trainees ' comfort level in performing those procedures independently ( Kirkpatrick level 2a) and trainees ' knowledge of the procedures/equipment ( Kirkpatrick level 2b) before and after the JITT. The study enrolled all fourth year medical students and residents ( family medicine and pediatrics) who rotated through a children 's hospital ED. The JITT curriculum included group discussion on storage locations of procedure equipment in the ED and clinical indications/contraindications followed by hands-on procedure training. One of 2 attending physicians facilitated the 10- to 20-minute JITT in the ED during their shifts. Trainees completed an anonymous survey to delineate medical training level , previous procedure experiences , procedure-related knowledge , and comfort level to perform the procedures independently. Identical surveys were completed before and after the JITT. The data were analyzed using percentage for categorical variables. For comparisons between pre-JITT and post-JITT survey data , χ tests or Fisher exact tests were used. There were 65 surveys included ( 34 pre-JITT and 31 post-JITT surveys). The comfort level to perform procedures independently increased from pre-JITT 0 % to post-JITT 48 % ( P < 0.001) for IO needle placement and from pre-JITT 3 % to post-JITT 32 % ( P = 0.0016) for defibrillator use. The procedure-related knowledge also increased by ## greater than or equal to 50 % post-JITT ( P < 0.0001). Our JITT curriculum significantly increased the comfort level of the trainees to perform IO needle insertion and defibrillator use independently. Procedure-related knowledge also increased. By increasing their comfort to perform these procedures independently , we aim to increase the likelihood that trainees can be competent contributing members of an acute medical response team in these respective roles.