  Background and aim The Norwegian version of the Neck Disability Index ( NDI) has been widely used in previous studies. To our knowledge , the test-retest reliability and responsiveness of the NDI have not been investigated. Thus , the aim of the present study was to investigate the test-retest reliability and responsiveness of the Norwegian version of the NDI in neck<symptom> pain<symptom> patients seen in a specialized outpatient clinic. Methods This study included patients referred to the neck and back outpatient clinic at Oslo University Hospital. A total of 255 patients were included in the study , of which 42 participated in the test-retest portion of the study. The intraclass correlation coefficient ( ICC) was used to assess test-retest reliability. A total of 113 patients participated in the responsiveness analyses. Based on their responses on the Global Rating Scale of Change ( GRS) , patients were categorized into the following groups: worsened ( n = 24) , unchanged ( n = 7) and improved ( n = 62). The minimal detectable change ( MDC) for the NDI was calculated. Responsiveness was assessed by constructing a Receiver Operating Characteristic curve ( ROC curve) to distinguish patients who had improved or worsened from those who remained unchanged. The minimum clinically important difference ( MCID) was estimated. Results The test-retest reliability between the baseline scores and the retest NDI scores was very good ( ICC = 0.84; 95 % CI 0.72-0.91). The ability of the NDI to discriminate between improved and unchanged patients ( responsiveness) over time was acceptable based on the ROC curve analysis ( AUC = 0.70; 95 % CI 0.58-0.82). The estimated MDC for the Norwegian version of the NDI is 12.3 % , and the MCID is 16.6 %. Conclusion The Norwegian version of the NDI proved to be an instrument with good test-retest reliability and acceptable responsiveness for assessing neck pain-related disability among neck<symptom> pain<symptom> patients in a specialized outpatient clinic.