  Bone tunnel enlargement is one of the important factors that determine whether a revision anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction ( ACLR) should be performed in 1 or 2 stages. The goal of this retrospective cohort study was to compare the mid-term to long-term outcomes of 1-stage revision ACLR according to the amount of preoperative tunnel enlargement. Between January 2002 and January 2012 , 88 patients who underwent revision ACLR were enrolled. The patients were divided into 2 groups based on the tunnel diameter ( group A , < 12 mm; group B , ≥ 12 mm). Clinical scores ( International Knee Documentation Committee ( IKDC) subjective score , Lysholm score , and Tegner score) and knee joint stability ( as measured with the anterior drawer test , Lachman test , pivot-shift test , and measurement of the side-to-side difference in anterior tibial translation on Telos stress radiographs) were evaluated preoperatively and 5 to 15 years postoperatively. The failure rate and survivorship were compared between groups A and B. The mean time to final follow-up was 7.9 ± 2.6 years. There were 44 patients in each of the 2 groups. There were no significant differences in the postoperative IKDC subjective scores , Lysholm scores , or Tegner activity scores between the groups. However , group A showed superior results on all knee joint stability tests except for the anterior drawer test. There were 3 failures in group A ( 7 %) and 6 in group B ( 14 %). The overall survival rates with failure as the end point were 93.1 % and 84.6 % , respectively , at 15 years. The 5 to 15-year clinical scores following revision ACLR did not differ significantly according to the preoperative amount of tunnel widening. However , the results of the postoperative Lachman and pivot-shift tests as well as the side-to-side difference in anterior tibial translation on Telos stress radiographs were significantly superior in the group with a preoperative tunnel diameter of < 12 mm compared with the group with a tunnel diameter of ≥ 12 mm. Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.