  Background and aim Strong opioids including oxycodone are amongst the most effective analgesics to combat moderate to severe<symptom> pain<symptom> of various aetiologies , but opioid-induced bowel dysfunction ( OIBD) represents a relevant problem. The rationale for development of a prolonged-release ( PR) fixed combination of oxycodone and naloxone was to counteract OIBD. Due to its negligible oral bioavailability , the μ-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone is able to selectively displace opioids from local μ-receptors in the gastrointestinal tract without affecting central opioid binding sites. Pivotal trials of PR oxycodone/naloxone not only demonstrated improved bowel function but also equivalent analgesic efficacy compared to PR oxycodone alone. Controlled clinical trials comparing PR oxycodone/naloxone with strong opioids other than oxycodone are not available. The present study is the first data set aimed at comparing pain control , bowel function , and quality of life ( QoL) in patients newly treated with or switched to PR oxycodone/naloxone or other strong opioids during routine clinical practice. Methods In this three-arm , prospective observational study , 588 patients with moderate to severe<symptom> pain<symptom> of varying aetiologies received either PR oxycodone/naloxone ( OXN group and OXN 40/20 group with indicated use of the 40 mg/20 mg dose strength at baseline) or other strong opioids ( control group) , dosed according to pain severity , for 4-6 weeks. Data documented include pain intensity ( NRS) , bowel function ( Bowel Function Index , BFI) , pain-related functional impairment ( BPI-SF) , QoL ( EuroQol EQ-5D-3L) , and a global assessment of treatment. Results Patients receiving PR oxycodone/naloxone experienced a clinically important reduction in pain intensity and pain-related functional impairment of approximately 40 %. The reductions of pain intensity ( -2.9 ± 2.3) and pain-related functional impairment ( -2.4 ± 2.3) in the OXN group were significantly more pronounced than in the control group ( -2.1 ± 2.1 and -1.8 ± 1.7). In the control group , mean reductions in pain intensity did not reach the threshold of ≥ 30 % for at least moderate clinically important differences , although patients were prescribed higher doses of morphine equivalents than OXN group patients. Improvements in bowel function ( OXN: -16.0 ± 27.6; control: 3.1 ± 24.4) and QoL ( OXN: 20.8 ± 24.2; control: 13.2 ± 23.1) were also significantly more pronounced in the OXN group , with BFI scores reduced to a level that reflects normal bowel function. Results for the OXN 40/20 group receiving higher doses of PR oxycodone/naloxone were in line with those for the OXN group. In the control group , more frequent gastrointestinal adverse events and less favourable ratings of tolerability resulted in a higher rate of treatment discontinuations due to adverse events. Conclusions In patients receiving PR oxycodone/naloxone , more favourable outcomes compared with other strong opioids regarding pain control , bowel function , and QoL were observed. Implications The present findings underline the value of PR oxycodone/naloxone in the management of patients with moderate to severe chronic<symptom> pain<symptom>. The data set further adds to our understanding of the benefits and risks of opioid treatment in routine clinical practice.