  The pancreas is a complex organ composed of many different cell types that work together to regulate blood glucose homeostasis and digestion. These cell types include enzyme-secreting acinar cells , an arborized ductal system responsible for the transportation of enzymes to the gut , and hormone-producing endocrine cells. Endocrine beta-cells are the sole cell type in the body that produce insulin to lower blood glucose levels. Diabetes , a disease characterized by a loss or the dysfunction of beta-cells , is reaching epidemic proportions. Thus , it is essential to establish protocols to investigate beta-cell development that can be used for screening purposes to derive the drug and cell-based therapeutics. While the experimental investigation of mouse development is essential , in vivo studies are laborious and time-consuming. Cultured cells provide a more convenient platform for screening; however , they are unable to maintain the cellular diversity , architectural organization , and cellular interactions found in vivo. Thus , it is essential to develop new tools to investigate pancreatic organogenesis and physiology. Pancreatic epithelial cells develop in the close association with mesenchyme from the onset of organogenesis as cells organize and differentiate into the complex , physiologically competent adult organ. The pancreatic mesenchyme provides important signals for the endocrine development , many of which are not well understood yet , thus difficult to recapitulate during the in vitro culture. Here , we describe a protocol to culture three-dimensional , cellular complex mouse organoids that retain mesenchyme , termed pancreatoids. The e10 .5 murine pancreatic bud is dissected , dissociated , and cultured in a scaffold-free environment. These floating cells self-assemble with mesenchyme enveloping the developing pancreatoid and a robust number of endocrine beta-cells developing along with the acinar and the duct cells. This system can be used to study the cell fate determination , structural organization , and morphogenesis , cell-cell interactions during organogenesis , or for the drug , small molecule , or genetic screening.