  We present a measurement cell that allows simultaneous measurement of second harmonic generation ( SHG) and streaming potential ( SP) at mineral-water interfaces with flat specimen that are suitable for non-linear optical ( NLO) studies. The set-up directly yields SHG data for the interface of interest and can also be used to obtain information concerning the influence of flow on NLO signals from that interface. The streaming potential is at present measured against a reference substrate ( PTFE). The properties of this inert reference can be independently determined for the same conditions. With the new cell , for the first time the SHG signal and the SP for flat surfaces have been simultaneously measured on the same surface. This can in turn be used to unambiguously relate the two observations for identical solution composition. The SHG test of the cell with a fluorite sample confirmed previously observed differences in NLO signal under flow vs. no flow conditions in sum frequency generation ( SFG) investigations. As a second test surface , an inert ( `` hydrophobic '') OTS covered sapphire-c electrolyte interface was studied to verify the zeta-potential measurements with the new cell. For this system we obtained combined zeta-potential/SHG data in the vicinity of the point of zero charge , which were found to be proportional to each other as expected. Furthermore , on the accessible time scales of the SHG measurements no effects of flow , flow velocity and stopped flow occurred on the interfacial water structure. This insensitivity to flow for the inert surface was corroborated by concomitant molecular dynamics simulations. Finally , the set-up was used for simultaneous measurements of the two properties as a function of pH in automated titrations with an oxidic surface. Different polarization combinations obtained in two separate titrations , yielded clearly different SHG data , while under identical conditions zeta-potentials were exactly reproduced. The polarization combination that is characteristic for dipoles perpendicular to the surface scaled with the zeta-potentials over the pH-range studied , while the other did not. The work provides an advanced approach for investigating liquid/surface interactions which play a major role in our environment. The set-up can be upgraded for SFG studies , which will allow more detailed studies on the chemistry and the water structure at a given interface , but also the combined study of specific adsorption including kinetics in combination with electrokinetics. Such investigations are crucial for the basic understanding of many environmental processes from aquatic to atmospheric systems.