  Sports activity has become extremely popular among amateurs. Electrocardiography is a useful tool in screening for cardiac pathologies in athletes; however , there is little data on electrocardiographic abnormalities in the group of amateur athletes. The aim of this study was to analyze the abnormalities in resting and exercise electrocardiograms ( ECGs) in a group of amateur athletes , and try to determine whether the criteria applied for the general population or for athletes ' ECGs should be implemented in this group. In 40 amateur male marathon runners , 3 consecutive 12-lead ECGs were performed: 2-3 weeks before ( stage 1) , just after the run ( stage 2) and 2-3 weeks after the marathon ( stage 3). Resting ( stage 1) and exercise ( stage 2) ECGs were analyzed following the refined criteria for the assessment of athlete 's ECG ( changes classified as training-related , borderline or training-unrelated). In resting ECGs , at least 1 abnormality was found in 92.5 % of the subjects and the most common was sinus bradycardia<symptom> ( 62.5 %). In post-exercise ECGs , at least 1 abnormality was present in 77.5 % of the subjects and the most common was right atrium enlargement ( RAE) ( 42.5 %). Training-related ECG variants were more frequent at rest ( 82.5 % vs 42.5 %; p = 0.0008) , while borderline variants- after the run ( 22.5 % vs 57.5 %; p = 0.0004). Training-unrelated abnormalities were found in 15 % and 10 % of the subjects , respectively ( p-value- nonsignificant) , and the most common was T-wave inversion. Even if the refined criteria rather than the criteria used for normal sedentary population were applied , the vast majority of amateur runners showed at least 1 abnormality in resting ECGs , which were mainly training-related variants. However , at rest , in 15 % of the subjects , pathologic training-unrelated abnormalities were found. The most frequent post-exercise abnormality was right atrial enlargement. General electrocardiographic screening in amateur athletes should be taken into consideration.