  Conventional methods for the determination of major nutrients and trace elements in grass rely on acid digestion followed by analysis using inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ( ICP-OES) , which can be both time consuming and costly. Energy dispersive X-ray fluorescence ( EDXRF) spectrometry offers a rapid alternative that can determine multiple elements in a single scan. Copper , Mn , Zn , and S in grass samples were determined using EDXRF with a number of different calibration approaches using both empirical standards and the theoretical relationships between concentrations and intensities. Using an existing archive of 467 grass samples of known concentrations , a suite of 30 samples was selected as empirical grass standards to build a calibration set between sample concentrations and EDXRF intensities. The theoretical or standardless approach used the fundamental parameters method to determine element concentrations. To validate the two calibration methods , 59 samples were randomly selected from the same archive and database and analyzed by EDXRF. The measurements of Cu , Mn , Zn , and S were compared with the ICP-OES values using agreement statistics. An excellent correlation was observed between the concentrations determined by EDXRF and ICP-OES ( R > 0.90) regardless of the calibration approach. However , agreement and closeness to the true value varied and were assessed using agreement statistics. Across all elements , the empirically calibrated samples were in excellent agreement with the values determined by ICP-OES. The theoretical calibrations provided excellent agreement for Mn and Zn , but a degree of fixed and proportional bias was observed in the Cu and S values. Fixed bias was corrected by subtracting the computed bias from the EDXRF concentrations and improved the overall agreement. Similarly , proportional bias was corrected using the linear regression model to predict the corrected EDXRF values. This improved the overall agreement with the ICP-OES values for both Cu and S using corrected fundamental parameters calibrations. This study provides a practical basis for the use of EDXRF to determine Cu , Mn , Zn , and S in grass samples to monitor forage quality in grazed systems without the need for sample digestion. The observed fixed and proportional bias in the theoretical calibrations can be corrected provided that a good correlation exists between EDXRF and conventional methods.