  Cuenca-Fernández , F , Ruiz-Teba , A , López-Contreras , G , and Arellano , R. Effects of 2 types of activation protocols based on postactivation potentiation on 50-m freestyle performance. J Strength Cond Res XX ( X): 000-000 , 2018-Postactivation potentiation ( PAP) is a phenomenon which improves muscle contractility , strength , and speed in sporting performances through previously applied maximal or submaximal loads on the muscle system. This study aimed to assess the effects of 2 types of activation protocols based on PAP , on sprint swimming performance. A repeated-measures design was used to compare 3 different scenarios before a 50-m race. First , all of the participants performed a standard warm-up ( SWU) , consisting of a 400-m swim followed by dynamic stretching. This protocol acted as the control. Subsequently , the swimmers were randomly assigned into 2 groups: the swimmers in the first group performed the SWU followed by a PAP one-repetition maximum warm-up ( RMWU) , consisting of 3 `` lunge '' and 3 `` arm stroke '' repetitions , both at 85 % of the one-repetition maximum. The swimmers in the second group performed the SWU followed by a PAP eccentric flywheel warm-up ( EWU) , consisting of one set of 4 repetitions of exercises of both the lower and upper limbs on an adapted eccentric flywheel at the maximal voluntary contraction. The time required for the swimmers to swim 5 and 10 m was shorter with the PAP protocols. The swimming velocity of the swimmers who underwent the EWU and RMWU protocols was faster at 5 and 10 m. The best total swimming time was not influenced by any of the protocols. When isolating swimming ( excluding start performance and turn) , best time was achieved with the SWU and RMWU compared with EWU ( SWU: 20.86 ± 0.95 seconds; EWU: 21.25 ± 1.12 seconds; RMWU: 20.97 ± 1.22 seconds). In conclusion , a warm-up based on PAP protocols might exert an influence on performance in the first meters of a 50-m race. Nevertheless , other factors , such as fatigue<symptom> , could modify swimming patterns and yield results contradictory to those of the desired task.