  To estimate the budget impact ( BI) of introducing local autograft ( LA) combined with demineralized bone matrix ( LA + DBM) in lumbar spinal fusion ( LSF) procedures to treat lumbar degenerative disc disease ( LDDD) in Spain. A decision tree model was developed to evaluate the 4-year BI associated with introducing LA + DBM putty to replace currently available grafting methods , including iliac crest bone graft ( ICBG) , LA alone , and LA combined with beta-tricalcium phosphate ( LA + ceramics) , with 30 % , 40 % , and 30 % market shares , respectively. The analysis was conducted for a hypothetical cohort of 100 patients with LDDD receiving LSF , assuming LA + DBM would replace 100 % of the standard of care mix. The fusion rates extracted from the literature were validated by an expert panel. Costs ( $ 2017) were obtained from different Spanish sources. Budget impact and incremental cost per successful fusion were calculated from the perspective of the Spanish National Health System ( NHS). Over 4 years , replacing currently available options with LA + DBM for 100 patients resulted in an additional cost of $ 12,330 ( $ 123/patient) , and an additional 14 successful fusions , implying a cost of $ 881 per additional successful fusion. When costs of productivity loss were included , the introduction of LA + DBM resulted in cost savings of $ 70,294 ( $ 703/patient). The lack of high-quality , homogeneous , head-to-head research studying the efficacy of grafting procedures available to patients undergoing LSF , in addition to a lack of long-term follow-up in existing studies. Therefore , the number of fusions occurring within the model 's time horizon may be underestimated. Acquisition costs of DBM were partially offset by costs of failed fusions , adverse events and reoperation when switching 100 hypothetical LDDD patients undergoing LSF procedures from standard of care grafting methods to LA + DBM from the perspective of the Spanish NHS. DBM cost was entirely offset when costs of lost productivity were considered.