  The evaluation of wastewater treatment capabilities in terms of removal of water pollutants is crucial when assessing water mitigation issues. Not only the monitoring of target pollutants becomes a critical point , but also the transformation products ( TPs) generated. Since these TPs are very often unknown compounds , their study in both wastewater and natural environment is currently recognized as a tedious task and challenging research field. In this study , a novel automated suspect screening methodology was developed for a comprehensive assessment of the TPs generated from nine antibiotics during microalgae water treatment. Three macrolides ( azithromycin , erythromycin , clarithromycin) , three fluoroquinolones<disease> ( ofloxacin , ciprofloxacin , norfloxacin) and three additional antibiotics ( trimethoprim , pipemidic acid , sulfapyridine) were selected as target pollutants. The analysis of samples was carried out by direct injection in an on-line turbulent flow liquid chromatography-high resolution mass spectrometry ( TFC-LC-LTQ-Orbitrap-MS/ MS) system , followed by automatic data processing for compound identification. The screening methodology allowed the identification of 40 tentative TPs from a list of software predicted intermediates created automatically. Once known and unknown TPs were identified , degradation pathways were suggested considering the different mechanisms involved on their formation ( biotic and abiotic). Results reveal microalgae ability for macrolide biotransformation , but not for other antibiotics such as for fluoroquinolones<disease>. Finally , the intermediates detected were included into an in-house library and applied to the identification of tentative TPs in real toilet wastewater treated in a microalgae based photobioreactor ( PBR). The overall approach allowed a comprehensive overview of the performance of microalgae water treatment in a fast and reliable manner: it represents a useful tool for the rapid screening of wide range of compounds , reducing time invested in data analysis and providing reliable structural identification.