  Clinicians face unique challenges when assessing suspected child abuse cases. The majority of the literature exploring diagnostic decision-making in this field is anecdotal or survey-based and there is a lack of studies exploring decision-making around suspected abusive head trauma ( AHT). We aimed to determine factors influencing decision-making and multidisciplinary collaboration in suspected AHT cases , amongst 56 child protection professionals. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with clinicians ( 25) , child protection social workers ( 10) , legal practitioners ( 9 , including 4 judges) , police officers ( 8) , and pathologists ( 4) , purposively sampled across southwest United Kingdom. Interviews were recorded , transcribed and imported into NVivo for thematic analysis ( 38 % double-coded). We identified six themes influencing decision-making: ` professional ' , ` medical ' , ` circumstantial ' , ` family ' , ` psychological ' and ` legal ' factors. Participants diagnose AHT based on clinical features , the history , and the social history , after excluding potential differential diagnoses. Participants find these cases emotionally challenging but are aware of potential biases in their evaluations and strive to overcome these. Barriers to decision-making include lack of experience , uncertainty , the impact on the family , the pressure of making the correct diagnosis , and disagreements between professionals. Legal barriers include alternative theories of causation proposed in court. Facilitators include support from colleagues and knowledge of the evidence-base. Participants ' experiences with multidisciplinary collaboration are generally positive , however child protection social workers and police officers are heavily reliant on clinicians to guide their decision-making , suggesting the need for training on the medical aspects of physical abuse for these professionals and multidisciplinary training that provides knowledge about the roles of each agency.