  Central alexia is an acquired reading disorder co-occurring with a generalized language deficit ( aphasia<symptom>). We tested the impact of a novel training app , ` iReadMore ' , and anodal transcranial direct current stimulation of the left inferior frontal gyrus , on word reading ability in central alexia. The trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov ( NCT02062619). Twenty-one chronic stroke patients with central alexia participated. A baseline-controlled , repeated-measures , crossover design was used. Participants completed two 4-week blocks of iReadMore training , one with anodal stimulation and one with sham stimulation ( order counterbalanced between participants). Each block comprised 34 h of iReadMore training and 11 stimulation sessions. Outcome measures were assessed before , between and after the two blocks. The primary outcome measures were reading ability for trained and untrained words. Secondary outcome measures included semantic word matching , sentence reading , text reading and a self-report measure. iReadMore training resulted in an 8.7 % improvement in reading accuracy for trained words ( 95 % confidence interval 6.0 to 11.4; Cohen 's d = 1.38) but did not generalize to untrained words. Reaction times also improved. Reading accuracy gains were still significant ( but reduced) 3 months after training cessation. Anodal transcranial direct current stimulation ( compared to sham) , delivered concurrently with iReadMore , resulted in a 2.6 % ( 95 % confidence interval -0.1 to 5.3; d = 0.41) facilitation for reading accuracy , both for trained and untrained words. iReadMore also improved performance on the semantic word-matching test. There was a non-significant trend towards improved self-reported reading ability. However , no significant changes were seen at the sentence or text reading level. In summary , iReadMore training in post-stroke central alexia improved reading ability for trained words , with good maintenance of the therapy effect. Anodal stimulation resulted in a small facilitation ( d = 0.41) of learning and also generalized to untrained items .10.1093/ brain/awy138 _ video1awy138media15796149281001.