  Myocardial fibrosis<disease> is a common postmortem finding among young individuals with sudden cardiac death. Because there is no known single cause , we tested the hypothesis that some cases of myocardial fibrosis<disease> in the absence of identifiable causes ( primary myocardial fibrosis<disease> ( PMF)) are associated with genetic variants. Tissue was obtained at autopsy from 4031 consecutive individuals with sudden cardiac death in Northern Finland , among whom PMF was the only structural finding in 145 subjects with sudden cardiac death. We performed targeted next-generation sequencing using a panel of 174 genes associated with myocardial structure and ion channel function when autopsies did not identify a secondary basis for myocardial fibrosis<disease>. All variants with an effect on protein and with a minor allele frequency < 0.01 were classified as pathogenic or variants of uncertain significance on the basis of American College of Medical Genetics consensus guidelines. Among the 96 specimens with DNA passing quality control ( 66 %) , postmortem genetic tests identified 24 variants of known or uncertain significance in 26 subjects ( 27 %). Ten were pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in 10 subjects ( 10 %) , and 14 were variants of uncertain significance in 11 genes among 16 subjects ( 17 %). Five variants were in genes associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy , 6 in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy-associated genes , and 11 in dilated cardiomyopathy-associated genes; 2 were not associated with these disorders. Four unique variants of uncertain significance cosegregated among multiple unrelated subjects with PMF. No pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants were detected in ion channel-encoding genes. A large proportion of subjects with PMF at autopsy had variants in genes associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy , dilated cardiomyopathy , and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without autopsy findings of those diseases , suggesting that PMF can be an alternative phenotypic expression of structural disease-associated genetic variants or that risk-associated fibrosis<disease> was expressing before the primary<disease> disease<disease>. These findings have clinical implications for postmortem genetic testing and family risk profiling.