  Protein intake in infancy promotes growth , but excessive intake may lead to adiposity in children. However , whether this increased adiposity persists throughout childhood and is independent of diet in later life remains unclear. Therefore , we studied the associations of total protein intake and protein from different sources at age 1 year with repeatedly measured growth and body composition up to age 10 years. Additionally , we examined whether these associations are independent of protein intake and overall diet quality at age 8 years. We included 3573 children from the Generation R study , a population-based prospective cohort in the Netherlands. Dietary intakes were assessed with food-frequency questionnaires at ages 1 and 8 years and macronutrient intakes were expressed as energy percentages ( E %). Height and weight were measured at eight time points between ages 1 and 10 years. Fat and fat-free masses were measured at ages 6 and 10 years with dual-energy X-ray-absorptiometry. We calculated body mass index ( BMI) , fat mass index ( FMI) and fat-free mass index ( FFMI). Outcomes were standardized for sex and age and expressed as standard deviation scores ( SDS). Associations of protein intake with growth and body composition trajectories were examined with multivariable linear mixed models. After adjustment for confounders , 5E % additional protein intake at age 1 year was associated with a 0.10 SDS higher weight ( 95 % CI 0.04 , 0.16) , 0.10 SDS higher BMI ( 95 % CI 0.04 , 0.16) , and 0.07 SDS higher FMI ( 95 % CI 0.01 , 0.13) up to age 10 years. These associations were explained by protein from animal sources and not plant sources. Associations were independent of protein intake and overall diet quality at age 8 years , and were independent of whether higher protein was consumed at the expense of carbohydrates or fat in the diet. Our study suggests that high protein intake in infancy , particularly from animal food sources , is persistently associated with adiposity up to age 10 years. Restricting protein intake in this critical period of development may aid in the early prevention of adiposity in childhood.