  Despite significant advances to the HIV<pathogen> epidemic , prevention remains a challenge globally. Adolescent girls and young women in southern and Eastern Africa are still at high risk of acquiring HIV<pathogen> infection with limited prevention options. The expanding product pipeline of novel drugs and delivery approaches has highlighted the importance of acceptability and uptake of these anti-retroviral based products to realize their full prevention potential. Community engagement is now imperative to inform both product development and uptake; with research directed to understand what potential users are willing to use given the broader cultural-gender context in which HIV<pathogen> prevention product choices are made/negotiated. We conducted ten gender specific discussion groups with 112 participants in three of the eight highest HIV<pathogen> prevalence districts in urban , peri-urban , and rural KwaZulu-Natal. The participants where purposively selected according to age , location and sex. The data was analysed thematically in terms of the key enablers and barriers of accepting three key HIV<pathogen> dosing strategies; the oral pill , the vaginal ring and the injectable among men and women. The study found that women are willing to consider HIV<pathogen> prevention options that align with their current sexual and reproductive health routines , offers the longest duration of protection , and requires minimal/no partner involvement , in contrast most men were not supportive of their partners using of any form of PrEP , irrespective of dosing strategies and formulations as it raised questions of infidelity and side effects on men. The findings is indicative of the complexities of women 's product choices , which are often embedded in a system of personal preference on an intrapersonal level , but also of male dominance , gender norms and cultural contexts at an interpersonal level. Understanding this intrapersonal-interpersonal interplay can enhance PrEP messaging and promotion; further highlighting the need to expand biomedical innovations for women initiated technologies.