  Prior studies have found heightened negative affect following tobacco abstinence in women compared to men. However , experimental work addressing whether these findings generalize across racial groups is scarce. The current study investigated whether race ( Non-Hispanic White vs. Non-Hispanic African American) moderated gender differences in abstinence-induced negative affect and smoking behavior. Data were collected from 2010 to 2017 from two separate laboratory studies investigating experimentally manipulated tobacco abstinence. Following a baseline session , adult daily smokers ( 10 cigarettes per day; women: n = 297 , 83.8 % Non-Hispanic African American; men: n = 492 , 86.2 % Non-Hispanic African American) attended two counterbalanced lab sessions ( 16 hours abstinent vs. non-abstinent) and completed self-report measures of negative affect followed by a laboratory analogue smoking reinstatement task. We found a gender race interaction for several negative affect states and composite negative affect ( ßs = -.12 to -.16 , ps < .05). Analyses stratified by race showed that Non-Hispanic White women compared to Non-Hispanic White men exhibited greater abstinence-induced increases in anger , anxiety<symptom> , and composite negative affect ( ßs = -.20 to -.29 , ps < .05). No significant gender differences in abstinence-induced negative affect were found for Non-Hispanic African American smokers ( ßs = .00 to -.04 , ps > .05). These findings suggest that negative affect during acute tobacco abstinence may be a clinically important and intervenable factor that can inform cessation interventions specifically for Non-Hispanic White women smokers. Further empirical exploration of mechanisms underlying interactions of gender and race in tobacco addiction may benefit smoking cessation efforts in Non-Hispanic African American women smokers. The current study contributes to a scant body of research examining the intersectional influence of race and gender on abstinence-induced negative affect-a central , motivationally prepotent feature of tobacco withdrawal. Using a laboratory-based design to experimentally manipulate abstinence , we provide evidence of a gender race interaction on negative affect-related withdrawal. Our findings suggest that gender differences in abstinence-induced negative affect observed among Non-Hispanic White smokers may not generalize to Non-Hispanic African American smokers , highlighting the need for future work to address potential mechanisms underlying the racially discrepant impact of gender on affective tobacco withdrawal.