  Determine the safety of overlapping surgery in a tertiary care colorectal surgery practice. Although overlapping surgery is common in academic centers , reports on outcomes of this practice are limited. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the safety of overlapping surgery in a dedicated tertiary care academic colorectal practice by comparing groups of patients who did or did not have their surgery performed in an overlapping fashion. Retrospective review of 1270 colorectal patients undergoing inpatient colorectal surgery at our institution. Eligible participants were all patients undergoing elective inpatient colorectal surgery by one of the colorectal surgeons at the Mayo Clinic Rochester between January 1 , 2012 and December 31 , 2015. Patients under the age of 18 or who underwent an emergent procedure were excluded. Data were abstracted using the American College of Surgeons National Quality Improvement Program ( ACS-NSQIP) database. Additionally , each subject 's chart was reviewed and further abstracted. The safety of overlapping surgery on outcomes was assessed using multiple multivariable models. One thousand two hundred seventy patients were included in the study cohort of whom 50.7 % were female and the average age was 55.4 years. Overlapping surgery occurred in 576 patients ( 45 %). There were no significant differences in demographic , surgical indications , procedures , or operative complexity between patients undergoing overlapping surgery and those who did not. Overall adverse events were significantly less likely in patients undergoing overlapping surgery compared with those who did not ( 18.4 % vs 23.6 % , P = 0.02). We found that overlapping surgery was associated with significantly less adverse events compared with patients not undergoing overlapping surgery using a model that controlled for the effect of the individual surgeon ( OR 0.7 , 95 % CI 0.6- 0.96; P = .02) and a multivariable propensity score ( OR 0.7 , 95 % CI 0.5- 0.9; P = 01). Overlapping surgery in a tertiary care colorectal practice is safe and not associated with adverse patient outcomes.