  Background and aims NXN-188 is a combined neuronal nitric oxide synthase ( nNOS) inhibitor and 5HT-1B/ 1D receptor agonist which has previously shown efficacy in the acute treatment of migraine. Nitric oxide ( NO) is involved in the pathogenesis of migraine pain and is formed after cortical spreading depression<symptom> Therefore NXN-188 could perhaps prevent the development of the headache<symptom> phase in migraine with aura if taken during the aura. The aims of the present study were to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 600 mg NXN-188 in the acute treatment of migraine when dosed during the aura. Methods A single-centre , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , two-way crossover trial. The study medication was taken during the aura and the patients kept a study diary for 48h post-dose. Results Of 615 patients screened , 50 patients were included in the study and randomized. Only 18 patients completed both treatments in compliance with the study procedures. 22 % of patients reported freedom of headache<symptom> at 2h after intake of NXN-188 compared with only 11 % of patients after placebo. Conclusions The dual-action drug NXN-188 with 5HT-1B/ 1D agonism and nNOS inhibition , taken orally during the aura phase did not have a statistically substantial effect on migraine headache<symptom> in this study. This study was limited by a high drop-out rate and small sample of included patients who were able to complete the cross-over protocol. Therefore , efficacy of the treatment can not be refuted with certainty. Implications This study illustrates the difficulties of doing well controlled studies in migraine patients with aura. nNOS inhibition is expected to be effective mostly in the aura phase , i.e. the oral administration may have had too slow pharmacokinetics to have effect. Parenteral administration may overcome this obstacle. 5HT-1B/ 1D agonism is not effective when dosed during migraine aura. Repeated dosing of the NXN-188 during and immediately following the aura may have exploited more the dualaction. The high drop-out rate may be reduced in future studies by having the patients familiarize themselves with the study procedure by filling out the attack report form while treating one attack with their own medication before entering the trial. A parallel group comparison may be a more effective trial design for treatment during an aura.