  Are the mean numbers of blastocysts obtained from sibling cohorts of oocytes recruited after follicular phase and luteal phase stimulations ( FPS and LPS) in the same ovarian cycle similar? The cohorts of oocytes obtained after LPS are larger than their paired-FPS-derived cohorts and show a comparable competence , thus resulting in a larger mean number of blastocysts. Three theories of follicle recruitment have been postulated to date: ( i) the ` continuous recruitment ' theory , ( ii) the ` single recruitment episode ' theory and ( iii) the ` wave ' theory. Yet , a clear characterization of this crucial biological process for human reproduction is missing. Recent advances implemented in in vitro fertilization ( IVF) , such as blastocyst culture , aneuploidy testing and vitrification , have encouraged clinicians to maximize the exploitation of the ovarian reserve through tailored stimulation protocols , which is crucial especially for poor prognosis patients aiming to conceive after IVF. LPS has been already successfully adopted to treat poor prognosis or oncological patients through Duostim , LPS-only or random-start ovarian stimulation approaches. Nevertheless , little , and mainly retrospective , evidence has been produced to support the safety of LPS in general. Feasibility of the LPS approach would severely question the classic ` single recruitment episode ' theory of follicular development. This case-control study was conducted with paired follicular phase- and luteal phase-derived cohorts of oocytes collected after stimulations in the same ovarian cycle ( DuoStim) at two private IVF clinics between October 2015 and December 2017. The study included 188 poor prognosis patients undergoing DuoStim with preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidies ( PGT-A). FPS and LPS were performed with the same daily dose of recombinant-gonadotrophins in an antagonist protocol. Blastocyst culture , trophectoderm biopsy , vitrification and frozen-warmed euploid single blastocyst transfers were performed. The primary outcome was the mean number of blastocysts obtained per oocyte retrieval from paired-FPS- and LPS-derived cohorts ( required sample size = 165 patients; power = 90 %). Mean blastulation and euploidy rates were monitored , along with the number of oocytes , euploid blastocysts and clinical outcomes. Significantly fewer blastocysts were obtained after FPS than LPS ( 1.2 ± 1.1 vs. 1.6 ± 1.6 , P < 0.01) , due to fewer oocytes collected ( 3.6 ± 2.1 vs. 4.3 ± 2.8 , P < 0.01) and a similar mean blastocyst rates per retrieval ( 33.1 % ± 30.3 % vs. 37.4 % ± 30.8 % , P = NS). The number of oocytes collected were correlated ( R = 0.5 , P < 0.01) , while the blastocyst rates were uncorrelated among paired-FPS- and LPS-derived cohorts. Overall , a significantly lower chance of producing blastocyst ( s) was reported after FPS than after LPS: 67.6 % ( n = 127/188 , 95 % CI: 60.3-74.1) vs. 77.1 % ( n = 145/188 , 95 % CI: 70.3-82.8; P = 0.05). The mean euploidy rates per retrieval were similar between FPS- and LPS-derived cohorts of oocytes ( 13.6 % ± 22.8 % vs. 16.3 % ± 23.4 % , P = NS). Therefore , on average fewer euploid blastocysts ( 0.5 ± 0.8 vs. 0.7 ± 1.0 , P = 0.02) resulted from FPS. Similar ongoing-pregnancy/delivery rates were reported , to date , after FPS- and LPS-derived euploid single blastocyst transfers: 42.4 % ( n = 28/66 , 95 % CI: 30.5-55.2) vs. 53.8 % ( n = 35/65 , 95 % CI: 41.1-66.1; P = NS). More studies need to be conducted in the future to confirm the safety of LPS , especially in terms of ovarian and follicular environment , as well as the clinical , peri-natal and post-natal outcomes. Here , we showed preliminary data suggesting a similar ongoing implantation/delivery rate ( > 22 weeks) between FPS- and LPS-derived euploid blastocysts , that need to be extended in the future , to populations other than poor prognosis patients and using approaches other than DuoStim together with a constant monitoring of the related peri-natal and post-natal outcomes. These data , from a paired study design , highlight that LPS-derived oocytes are as competent as FPS-derived oocytes , thereby adding some evidence to support the use of LPS for poor prognosis and oncological patients and to question the ` single recruitment episode ' theory of follicle recruitment. These findings also encourage additional studies of the basics of folliculogenesis , with direct clinical implications for the management of ovarian stimulation in IVF. None. No external funds were used for this study and there are no conflicts of interest.