  Individuals with short resting pectoralis minor muscle length have been shown to have aberrant scapulothoracic motion when compared to individuals with long resting pectoralis minor muscle length. However , the degree to which the pectoralis minor muscle can be lengthened and whether or not scapulothoracic motion differs between individuals with short and typical resting pectoralis minor muscle length is unknown. To determine if: ( 1) pectoralis minor muscle elongation ( percent pectoralis minor muscle can be actively and passively lengthened beyond resting length) , ( 2) pectoralis minor muscle percent length change during overhead reaching , and ( 3) scapulothoracic motion during overhead reaching differ between individuals with short and typical resting pectoralis minor muscle length. Two group comparison. Thirty healthy individuals were placed into a short or typical resting pectoralis minor muscle length group. A caliper was used to measure resting pectoralis minor muscle length and pectoralis minor muscle length during active and passive muscle lengthening. An electromagnetic tracking system was used to measure pectoralis minor muscle length change as well as scapular , humeral , and trunk motion during several arm elevation tasks. Pectoralis minor muscle elongation and length change during arm elevation tasks were compared between groups using independent t-tests. Two-factor mixed-model analyses of variance were used to compare scapulothoracic motion at arm elevation angles of 30 째 , 60 째 , 90 째 , and 120 째. Pectoralis minor muscle elongation and pectoralis minor muscle length change during arm elevation did not differ between groups. Scapulothoracic motion did not differ between groups across arm elevation tasks. Although resting pectoralis minor muscle length differed between groups , pectoralis minor muscle lengthening and scapulothoracic motion were similar between participants with short and typical resting pectoralis minor muscle length. Additional studies are needed to better understand the role of pectoralis minor muscle elongation on scapulothoracic motion.