  As positive evidence emerges for the use of an intervention to treat a health problem , the intervention gradually becomes incorporated into treatment guidelines ( TGs) or clinical practice guidelines ( CPGs) that are related to that health problem. To assess whether this general hypothesis can apply to acupuncture , 96 health problems were identified for which positive conclusions in systematic reviews and meta-analyses regarding the effectiveness of acupuncture have been made and then searched for TGs or CPGs that have recommended the use of acupuncture. Through August 31 , 2017 , searches were performed in relevant medical databases and Google using `` treatment guideline , '' `` clinical practice guideline , '' and the names of the 96 medical conditions as search terms. A `` snow-balling '' search approach was adopted. All positive recommendations were added into the registry. A total of 1311 publications were found that recommended using acupuncture published between 1991 and 2017. The number per year reached 50 in 2005 and 100 in 2009. In addition , 2189 positive recommendations were found for the use of acupuncture. Of these , 1486 were related to 107 pain indications and 703 were related to 97 nonpain indications. These recommendations were made by a wide range of groups , such as government health institutions , national guideline , and medical specialty groups. The recommendations came from around the world but were especially abundant in North<pathogen> America , Europe , and Australasia. Considerably more recommendations were found for the use of acupuncture than are known within the acupuncture or medical communities. A trend by year was also found; a rise in the number of positive statements about acupuncture was typically followed by a rise in the number of recommendations of acupuncture. Thus , the recommendations followed the emergent evidence for acupuncture. Better implementation plans need to be developed for the CPG/TG recommendations about acupuncture to be more effective/efficient.