  Background and purpose A growing number of people are using computers. Shoulder and neck<symptom> pain<symptom> occur commonly during computer work. Peripheral and central sensitization may play a major role in establishing and maintaining several chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> conditions. We have previously reported that a 90 min simulated computer office-work induced substantial pain in the shoulders and neck. We hypothesized that the development of pain during the computer work may be related to sensitization. The aim of the present study was to examine if the 90 min computer work induced deep tissue muscle hyperalgesia manifested as altered pressure pain<symptom> thresholds ( PPTs). Methods Twenty-two subjects with chronic shoulder and neck<symptom> pain<symptom> ( pain group) and 26 healthy and pain free subjects ( reference group) performed a standardized computer office-work task with use of a computer-mouse and with time pressure and high precision demands continuously for 90 min. The pressure pain<symptom> threshold was measured with a pressure algometer in shoulder and forearm muscles ( bilaterally in upper trapezius and extensor carpi radialis) , and at sternum , before and 15 min and 30 min after the computer work task. Results The PPTs before starting the computer work were not different between the groups at any of the five locations. In both groups , the PPTs in the active and inactive side of the upper trapezius as well as in the extensor carpi radialis of the forearm operating the computer mouse were significantly reduced after the 90 min computer work compared with the pre-work levels. In the pain group , also the PPT in the inactive resting forearm was significantly reduced. The changes seen in PPTs from pre-to post-work were not significantly different between the groups , except for the inactive resting forearm where the groups exhibited different time course. Conclusion A decrease in pressure pain<symptom> thresholds of involved muscles suggests that computer office-work can induce deep tissue hyperalgesia within 90 min. The development of pain during the computer work indicates peripheral sensitization as the predominant mechanism. Decreased pressure pain<symptom> thresholds also in sites distant from pain areas may indicate a contribution from central sensitization in the subjects with chronic shoulder and neck<symptom> pain<symptom>. Implications The lasting pain after work and the reduced PPTs both in involved and distant musculature may indicate need for frequent pauses during computer work , especially when performed with time pressure and high precision demands , in order to avoid pain to increase and sustain after work , and thus to prevent the possibility of pain to become chronic.