  Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography and endoscopic sphincterotomy ( ES) with subsequent cholecystectomy is the standard of care for the management of patients with choledocholithiasis. There is conflicting evidence in terms of mortality reduction , prevention of complications specifically biliary pancreatitis<disease> and cholangitis with the use of early cholecystectomy particularly in high-risk surgical and elderly patients. We conducted this systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to compare the early cholecystectomy versus wait and watch strategy after ES. We searched Medline , Scopus , Web of Science , and Cochrane database for randomized controlled trials comparing the 2 strategies in the management of choledocholithiasis after ES. Our primary outcome of interest was difference in mortality. We evaluated several secondary outcomes including difference in development of acute pancreatitis<disease> , biliary colic and cholecystitis<disease> , cholangitis and recurrent jaundice , nonbiliary adverse events , and length of hospital stay. Risk ratios ( RR) were calculated for categorical variables and difference in means was calculated for continuous variables. These were pooled using random effects model. Seven studies with 916 patients ( 455 cholecystectomy group and 461 wait and watch group) were included in the meta-analysis. Pooled RR with 95 % confidence interval for mortality was 1.43 ( 0.93-2.18) , I = 9 %. In the high-risk patient group , pooled RR was 1.39 ( 0.64-3.03) and in low-risk population pooled RR was 1.53 ( 0.79-2.96). Pooled RR for acute pancreatitis<disease> was 1.64 ( 0.46-5.81) with no heterogeneity. There was no difference in the rate of acute pancreatitis<disease> patients based on high-risk versus low-risk patients. Pooled RR for occurrence of biliary colic and cholecystitis<disease> during follow-up was 9.82 ( 4.27-22.59) , I = 0 %. Pooled RR for cholangitis and recurrent jaundice was 2.16 ( 1.14-4.07) , I = 0 %. However , there was no difference in the rate of cholangitis between the 2 groups in low-risk patients. Length of stay was shorter in the wait and watch group with a pooled mean difference was -2.70 ( -4.71 , -0.70) with substantial heterogeneity. Although we found no difference in mortality between the 2 strategies after ES , laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be recommended as it is associated with lower rates of subsequent recurrent cholecystitis<disease> , cholangitis , and biliary colic down the road even in high-risk surgical patients.