  The generation of homogeneous cardiomyocyte populations from fresh tissue or stem cells is laborious and costly. A potential solution to this problem would be to establish lines of immortalized cardiomyocytes. However , as proliferation and ( terminal) differentiation of cardiomyocytes are mutually exclusive processes , their permanent immortalization causes loss of electrical and mechanical functions. We therefore aimed at developing conditionally immortalized atrial myocyte ( iAM) lines allowing toggling between proliferative and contractile phenotypes by a single-component change in culture medium composition. Freshly isolated neonatal rat atrial cardiomyocytes ( AMs) were transduced with a lentiviral vector conferring doxycycline-controlled expression of simian virus 40 large T antigen. Under proliferative conditions ( i.e. in the presence of doxycycline) , the resulting cells lost most cardiomyocyte traits and doubled every 38 hours. Under differentiation conditions ( i.e. in the absence of doxycycline) , the cells stopped dividing and spontaneously reacquired a phenotype very similar to that of primary AMs in gene expression profile , sarcomeric organization , contractile behaviour , electrical properties and response to ion channel-modulating compounds ( as assessed by patch-clamp and optical voltage mapping). Moreover , differentiated iAMs had much narrower action potentials and propagated them at > 10-fold higher speeds than the widely used murine atrial HL-1 cells. High-frequency electrical stimulation of confluent monolayers of differentiated iAMs resulted in reentrant conduction resembling atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> , which could be terminated by tertiapin treatment , just like in monolayers of primary AMs. Through controlled expansion and differentiation of AMs , large numbers of functional cardiomyocytes were generated with properties superior to the differentiated progeny of existing cardiomyocyte lines. iAMs provide an attractive new model system for studying cardiomyocyte proliferation , differentiation , metabolism and ( electro) physiology and to investigate cardiac diseases and drug responses , without using animals.