  Smoking is a leading cause of numerous human disorders including pulmonary disease , cardiovascular disease , and cancer. Disease development is primarily caused by exposure to cigarette smoke constituents , many of which are known toxicants. Switching smokers to modified risk tobacco products ( MRTPs) has been suggested as a potential means to reduce the risks of tobacco use , by reducing such exposure. This randomized , controlled study investigated whether biomarkers of toxicant exposure ( BoE) were reduced when smokers switched from smoking combustible cigarettes to using a novel ( glo ™/ THP1 .0) or in-market comparator ( iQOS/THS) tobacco heating product ( THP). One hundred eighty Japanese smokers smoked combustible cigarettes during a 2-day baseline period , followed by randomization to either continue smoking cigarettes , switch to using mentholated or non-mentholated variants of glo ™ , switch to using a non-mentholated variant of iQOS , or quit nicotine and tobacco product use completely for 5 days. Baseline and post-randomization 24-h urine samples were collected for BoE analysis. Carbon monoxide was measured daily in exhaled breath ( eCO). On day 5 after switching , urinary BoE ( excluding for nicotine) and eCO levels were significantly ( p < .05) reduced by medians between 20.9 % and 92.1 % compared with baseline in all groups either using glo ™ or iQOS or quitting tobacco use. Between-group comparisons revealed that the reductions in the glo ™ groups were similar ( p > .05) to quitting in many cases. glo ™ or iQOS use for 5 days reduced exposure to smoke toxicants in a manner comparable to quitting tobacco use. THPs are reduced exposure tobacco products with the potential to be MRTPs. This clinical study demonstrates that when smokers switched from smoking combustible cigarettes to using tobacco heating products their exposure to smoke toxicants was significantly decreased. In many cases , this was to the same extent as that seen when they quit smoking completely. This may indicate that these products have the potential to be reduced exposure and/or reduced risk tobacco products when used by smokers whose cigarette consumption is displaced completely. ISRCTN14301360 and UMIN000024988.