  Matrix metalloproteinase-2 ( MMP-2) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( MMP-9) are the predominant gelatinases in the developing lung. Studies have shown that the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 is upregulated in hypoxic fibroblasts , 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 15-HETE) regulated fibroblasts migration via modulating MMP-2 or MMP-9 , and that hypoxia/15-HETE is a predominant contributor to the development of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH) through increased angiogenesis. However , the roles of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in pulmonary arterial endothelial cells ( PAECs) angiogenesis as well as the molecular mechanism of hypoxia-regulated MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression have not been identified. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in PAEC proliferation and vascular angiogenesis and to determine the effects of hypoxia-induced 15-HETE on the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Western blot , immunofluorescence , and real-time PCR were used to measure the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in hypoxic PAECs. Immunohistochemical staining , flow cytometry , and tube formation as well as cell proliferation , viability , scratch-wound , and Boyden chamber migration assays were used to identify the roles and relationships between MMP-2 , MMP-9 , and 15-HETE in hypoxic PAECs. We found that hypoxia increased MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression in pulmonary artery endothelium both in vivo and in vitro in a time-dependent pattern. Moreover , administration of the MMP-2 and MMP-9 inhibitor MMI-166 significantly reversed hypoxia-induced increases in right ventricular systemic pressure ( RVSP) , right ventricular function , and thickening of the tunica media. Furthermore , up-regulation of MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression was induced by 15-HETE , which regulates PAEC proliferation , migration , and cell cycle transition that eventually leads to angiogenesis. Our study demonstrated that hypoxia increases the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 through the 15-lipoxygenase/15-HETE pathway , and that MMP-2 and MMP-9 promote PAEC angiogenesis. These findings suggest that MMP-2 and MMP-9 may serve as new potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of PAH.