  Background Persistent pain after hernia repair is widely recognised as a considerable problem , although the natural course of postoperative pain is not fully understood. The aim of the present study was to explore the natural course of persistent pain after hernia repair in a population-based cohort and identify risk factors for prolonged pain duration. Methods The study cohort was assembled from the Swedish Hernia Register ( SHR) , which has compiled detailed information on more than 140 000 groin hernia repairs since 1992. All patients operated on for groin hernia in the County of Uppsala , Sweden , 1998-2004 were identified in the SHR. Those who were still alive in 2005 received the Inguinal Pain Questionnaire , a validated questionnaire with 18 items developed with the aim of assessing postherniorrhaphy pain , by mail. Reminders were sent to non-responders 5 months after the first mail. The halving time was estimated from a linear regression of the logarithmic transformation of the prevalence of pain each year after surgery. A multivariate analysis with pain persisting more than 1 month with a retrospective question regarding time to pain cessation as dependent variable was performed. Results Altogether 2834 repairs in 2583 patients were recorded , 162 of who had died until 2005. Of the remaining patients , 1763 ( 68 %) responded to the questionnaire. In 6.7 years the prevalence of persistent pain had decreased by half for the item `` pain right now '' and in 6.8 years for the item `` worst pain last week ''. The corresponding figures if laparoscopic repair was excluded were 6.4 years for `` pain right now '' and 6.4 years for `` worst pain past week ''. In a multivariate analysis , low age , postoperative complication and open method of repair were found to predict an increased risk for pain persistence exceeding 1 month. Conclusion Persistent postoperative pain is a common problem following hernia surgery , although it often recedes with time. It is more protracted in young patients , following open repair and after repairs with postoperative complications. Whereas efforts to treat persistent postoperative pain , in particular neuropathic pain , are often fruitless , this group can at least rely on the hope that the pain , for some of the patients , gradually decreases with time. On the other hand , 14 % still reported a pain problem 7 years after hernia surgery. We do not know the course after that. Although no mathematical model can provide a full understanding of such a complex process as the natural course of postoperative pain , assuming an exponential course may help to analyse the course the first years after surgery , enable comparisons with other studies and give a base for exploring factors that influence the duration of the postoperative pain. Halving times close to those found in our study could also be extrapolated from other studies , assuming an exponential course.