  Background and aims Lower socioeconomic status ( SES) , based on economic situation , education and occupation , has been associated with greater morbidity and mortality in a wide range of diseases , and socioeconomic inequalities have been found in several chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> populations. Since women are overrepresented in several clinical pain conditions , there is a need to understand the influence of SES among women with pain. In a previous cross-sectional study , socioeconomic-and work conditions were associated with pain among women from the general population of Sweden. In the present study , based on baseline and follow-up measures from 2300 of the same sample , we examined associations between pain variables , socioeconomic status and work conditions over time by means of multiple logistic/linear regression analyses. Additionally , a possible mediating role of depressive symptoms on the relationship between SES and pain was examined. Methods The study was a prospective panel survey with two measurements 12 months apart among 2300 women with and without pain from the general population in Stockholm ( aged 18-64). Logistic and linear regression analyses were used to identify associations between SES and pain outcomes. Results Results revealed that pain is a rather stable condition with large impact on daily functioning among many women. Certain SES variables ( educational level , financial strain , occupational level) were related to pain and pain related disability prospectively. Financial strain and to be a blue-collar worker were related to the incidence of pain among all women , while educational level was related to worse pain outcomes among women with pain in terms of pain intensity , pain frequency , number of pain locations and pain-related disability. Symptoms of depression<symptom> were associated with pain incidence and with pain variables ( intensity , number of pain locations and pain-related disability) and with lower SES. Conclusions Financial strain and occupational level were here identified as risk factors for the incidence of pain , and could be interpreted as increasing both physical and psychological stress and thereby work both as predisposing the individual to pain and to perpetuate the development of a pain condition. Educational level was associated with the course of pain in terms of pain duration and pain-related disability which may indicate that once affected by pain , lower educational level may be related to less functional coping strategies in the adaptation to the pain condition. Depressive symptoms could be understood as a mediator of the relationship between SES and pain among women in terms of limiting the individual 's strategies to handle pain in a functional manner by increasing passive behavior patterns such as avoidance. Implications The interplay between SES and symptoms of depression<symptom> should be regarded in preventive interventions and in treatment of pain among women. An overall risk-profile in terms of psychosocial and biological factors needs to be assessed early on within pain treatment for women. Increased knowledge of socioeconomic risk factors for long term pain , e.g. low educational level , is needed on all levels among all professionals within the healthcare system in order to facilitate effective communication in the treatment of women with pain.