  Currently used pre-operative prediction scores for postoperative pulmonary complications ( PPCs) use patient data and expected surgery characteristics exclusively. However , intra-operative events are also associated with the development of PPCs. We aimed to develop a new prediction score for PPCs that uses both pre-operative and intra-operative data. This is a secondary analysis of the LAS VEGAS study , a large international , multicentre , prospective study. A total of 146 hospitals across 29 countries. Adult patients requiring intra-operative ventilation during general anaesthesia for surgery. The cohort was randomly divided into a development subsample to construct a predictive model , and a subsample for validation. Prediction performance of developed models for PPCs. Of the 6063 patients analysed , 10.9 % developed at least one PPC. Regression modelling identified 13 independent risk factors for PPCs: six patient characteristics ( higher age , higher American Society of Anesthesiology ( ASA) physical score , pre-operative anaemia , pre-operative lower SpO2 and a history of active cancer or obstructive sleep apnoea) , two procedure-related features ( urgent or emergency surgery and surgery lasting ≥ 1 h) , and five intra-operative events ( use of an airway other than a supraglottic device , the use of intravenous anaesthetic agents along with volatile agents ( balanced anaesthesia) , intra-operative desaturation , higher levels of positive end-expiratory pressures > 3 cmH2O and use of vasopressors). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the LAS VEGAS risk score for prediction of PPCs was 0.78 ( 95 % confidence interval ( 95 % CI) , 0.76 to 0.80) for the development subsample and 0.72 ( 95 % CI , 0.69 to 0.76) for the validation subsample. The LAS VEGAS risk score including 13 peri-operative characteristics has a moderate discriminative ability for prediction of PPCs. External validation is needed before use in clinical practice. The study was registered at Clinicaltrials.gov , number NCT01601223.