  Background and purpose Pulsed radiofrequency ( PRF) is widely used for the treatment of chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> , although its mechanism of action is not known. The evidence of efficacy of PRF for neuropathic pain ( NP) conditions is limited. A double-blind , randomized , sham-controlled parallel study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PRF in the treatment of peripheral posttraumatic NP. Methods Forty-five patients with peripheral posttraumatic NP in their upper or lower limb were randomly assigned to receive PRF or sham treatment to the injured peripheral nerve ( s) causing peripheral posttraumatic NP. Only patients whose pain intensity was at least 5 on numerical rating scale ( NRS) 0-10 and who had suffered from their NP for at least 6 months were included. All patients had dynamic mechanical allodynia or pinprick hyperalgesia in their painful area. They had achieved temporary pain relief of at least 50 % with a local nerve block performed at a previous visit. The primary efficacy variable was the difference in 3-day mean pain intensity score from the baseline to 3 months. Other variables included response defined as ≥ 30 % reduction in mean pain intensity at 3 months compared to baseline , Neuropathic Pain Scale ( NPS) results , health related quality of life ( SF-36) and adverse effects. The skin was anesthetized with 1 % lidocaine. A radiofrequency needle was introduced through the skin , and then guided to a SMK cannula ( 52 , 100 or 144 mm depending on the target nerve) with 4 or 5 mm active tip ( SMK-C5-4 , SMK-C10-5 , SMK-C15-5 , Radionics ® , Burlington , MA , USA). The nerve was located accurately by stimulating at 50 Hz ( threshold < 0.5 V). Sham treatment or PRF was applied for 120s 1-4 times at each treatment point ( Radionics ® , Burlington , MA , USA). The total treatment time was up to 8 min. Both patients and clinicians were blinded during the whole treatment and follow-up period. Results Forty-three patients were included in the analyses. There was no statistically significant difference between PRF and sham treatment for the primary outcome efficacy variable. Seven patients ( 3 in PRF group and 4 in sham treatment group) achieved ≥ 30 % pain relief ( difference between groups was not significant). There was no statistically significant difference in the NPS or any dimension of SF-36 between the treatments. Eighteen patients reported adverse effects. They were mild and did not necessitate any treatment. Transient<symptom> pain<symptom> was reported by 17 patients , local irritation by 5 patients and local inflammation<symptom> by 1 patient. There was no significant difference between the groups in the presence of adverse effects. Conclusions PRF was well tolerated , but this study failed to show efficacy of PRF over sham treatment for peripheral posttraumatic NP. Implications Based on our results , we do not recommend PRF for peripheral posttraumatic NP. More research of the possible use of PRF for various pain conditions is needed to determine its role in the management of prolonged