  mAbs have emerged as a promising strategy for the treatment of cancer. However , in several malignancies , no effective antitumor mAbs are yet available. Identifying therapeutic mAbs that recognize common tumor antigens could render the treatment widely applicable. Here , a human single-chain variable fragment ( scFv) antibody library was sequentially affinity selected against a panel of human cancer cell lines and an antibody fragment ( named MS5) that bound to solid and blood cancer cells was identified. The MS5 scFv was fused to the human IgG1 Fc domain to generate an antibody ( MS5-Fc fusion) that induced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and phagocytosis of cancer cells by macrophages. In addition , the MS5-Fc antibody bound to primary leukemia<disease> cells and induced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. In the majority of analyzed cancer cells , the MS5-Fc antibody induced cell surface redistribution of the receptor complexes , but not internalization , thus maximizing the accessibility of the IgG1 Fc domain to immune effector cells. In vitro stability studies showed that the MS5-Fc antibody was stable after 6 d of incubation in human serum , retaining ∼ 60 % of its initial intact form. After intravenous injections , the antibody localized into tumor tissues and inhibited the growth of 3 different human tumor xenografts ( breast , lymphoma , and leukemia<disease>). These antitumor effects were associated with tumor infiltration by macrophages and NK cells. In the Ramos B-cell lymphoma xenograft model , the MS5-Fc antibody exhibited a comparable antitumor effect as rituximab , a chimeric anti-CD20 IgG1 mAb. These results indicate that human antibodies with pan-cancer abilities can be generated from phage display libraries , and that the engineered MS5-Fc antibody could be an attractive agent for further clinical investigation.-Sioud , M. , Westby , P. , Vasovic , V. , Fløisand , Y. , Peng , Q. Development of a new high-affinity human antibody with antitumor activity against solid and blood malignancies.