  Severe wheezing is a common medical emergency. Past studies have demonstrated associations between exacerbation of wheezing and meteorological factors and atmospheric pollution. There are no past studies from Sri Lanka that analyzed correlation between daily multiple meteorological variables and exacerbation of wheezing. To determine the correlations between daily counts of patients nebulized at the Outpatient Department ( OPD) of Teaching Hospital- Kandy ( THK) and local meteorological variables , and to explore the utility of that information. We considered daily counts of patients nebulized at the OPD of THK as an indicator of exacerbations of wheezing in the population catered to by this hospital. We determined the correlations between daily counts of patients nebulized at OPD and the following meteorological variables for four years: daily rainfall , minimum temperature , maximum temperature , diurnal temperature range , difference between maximum temperature and the temperature at 1800 hours , daytime humidity , nighttime humidity , barometric pressure and visibility. We utilized wavelet time series method for data analysis. All nine meteorological parameters studied were correlated with the daily counts of patients nebulized with average lag periods ranging from 5 to 15 days. Peaks of daily rainfall , maximum temperature , diurnal temperature range , difference between maximum temperature and the temperature at 1800 hours and daytime humidity were followed by peaks of counts of patients nebulized ( positive correlations). Troughs of minimum temperature , nighttime humidity , barometric pressure and visibility were followed by peaks of patients nebulized ( negative correlations). The THK shall expect more patients with acute wheezing after extremes of weather. Minimum temperature has been consistently correlated with the exacerbation of respiratory<symptom> symptoms<symptom> in the past studies in other countries as well. Hence , prescribing the inhalation of more drugs on unusually cold days ( prophylactically) may help prevent acute exacerbation of wheezing in patients on treatment for asthma and COPD.