  Heart<symptom> failure<symptom> induced by tachycardia<symptom> , the most common arrhythmia , is frequently observed in clinical practice. This study was designed to investigate the underlying mechanisms. Rapid electrical stimulation ( RES) at a frequency of 3 Hz was applied on human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes ( hiPSC-CMs) for 7 days , with 8 h/day and 24 h/day set to represent short-term and long-term tachycardia<symptom> , respectively. Age-matched hiPSC-CMs without electrical stimulation or with slow electrical stimulation ( 1 Hz) were set as no electrical stimulation ( NES) control or low-frequency electrical stimulation ( LES) control. Following stimulation , JC-1 staining flow cytometry analysis was performed to examine mitochondrial conditions. Apoptosis in hiPSC-CMs was evaluated using Hoechst staining and Annexin V/propidium iodide ( AV/PI) staining flow cytometry analysis. Calcium transients and L-type calcium currents were recorded to evaluate calcium homeostasis. Western blotting and qPCR were performed to evaluate the protein and mRNA expression levels of apoptosis-related genes and calcium homeostasis-regulated genes. Compared to the controls , hiPSC-CMs following RES presented mitochondrial dysfunction and an increased apoptotic percentage. Amplitudes of calcium transients and L-type calcium currents were significantly decreased in hiPSC-CMs with RES. Molecular analysis demonstrated upregulated expression of Caspase3 and increased Bax/Bcl -2 ratio. Genes related to calcium re-sequence were downregulated , while phosphorylated Ca2 +/ calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II ( CaMKII) was significantly upregulated following RES. There was no significant difference between the NES control and LES control groups in these aspects. Inhibition of CaMKII with 1 µM KN93 partly reversed these adverse effects of RES. RES on hiPSC-CMs disturbed calcium homeostasis , which led to mitochondrial stress , promoted cell apoptosis and caused electrophysiological remodeling in a time-dependent manner. CaMKII played a central role in the damages induced by RES , pharmacological inhibition of CaMKII activity partly reversed the adverse effects of RES on both structural and electrophysiological properties of cells.