  Lumbar pain affects between 60-90 % of people. It is a frequent cause of disability in adults. Pain may be generated by different anatomical structures such as the facet joint. However , nowadays pain produced by the facet joint has no clinical diagnosis. Therefore , the purpose of this article is to propose a clinical diagnostic scale for lumbar facet syndrome<disease>. The study was conducted by means of 6 phases as follows , Phase 1 , a systematic review of the literature was performed regarding the clinical diagnosis of facet-based lumbar pain based on the PRISMA checklist; Phase 2 , a list of signs and symptoms proposed for diagnosis lumbar pain of facet origin was made. Phase 3 , the list of signs and symptoms found was submitted to a committee of experts to discriminate the most significant signs and symptoms , these were linked to general sociodemographic variables to develop an evaluation questionnaire; Phase 4 , the evaluation questionnaire was applied , including those selected signs and symptoms to a group of patients with clinical diagnosis of facet disease lumbar pain and who underwent a selective facet block. Phase 5 , under standard technique selective facet block and subsequent postoperative clinical control at 1 month. Phase 6 , given pre and postsurgical results associated with signs present in the patients we propose a clinical scale of diagnosis scale. Descriptive statistics and Stata 12.0 were used as statistical software. A total of 36 signs and symptoms were found for the diagnosis of lumbar facet syndrome<disease> that were submitted to the group of experts , where a total of 12 ( 8 symptoms and 4 signs) were included for the final survey. 31 patients underwent selective lumbar facet blockade , mostly women , with an average of 60 ± 11.5 years , analogous visual scale of preoperative pain of 8/10 , postoperative of 1.7/ 10 , the signs and symptoms most frequently found included in a diagnostic scale were: 3 symptoms 1) axial or bilateral axial lumbar pain , 2) improvement with rest , 3) absence of root pattern , may have pseudoradicular pattern , however , the pain is greater lumbar than pain in the leg and 3 clinical signs 1) Kemp sign , 2) pain induced in joint or transverse process , 3) facet stress sign or Acevedo sign. The clinical diagnosis of lumbar facet pain is still debated. Few diagnostic scales have been postulated , with little or no external validity , so the present study proposes a diagnostic scale consisting of 3 symptoms and 3 clinical signs.