  Liraglutide is a type of glucagon‑like‑peptide 1 receptor agonist , which has been reported as a novel type of antidiabetic agent with numerous benefits , including cardiovascular and neuroprotective effects. To the best of our knowledge , few studies to date have reported the potential mechanism underlying the neuroprotective effects of liraglutide on rats with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM). The present study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective actions of liraglutide in diabetic rats and to determine the mechanisms underlying these effects. A total of 30 male T2DM Goto‑Kakizaki ( GK) rats ( age , 32 weeks; weight , 300‑350 g) and 10 male Wistar rats ( age , 32 weeks; weight , 300‑350 g) were used in the present study. Wistar rats received vehicle treatment , and GK rats randomly received treatment with vehicle , low dose of liraglutide ( 75 µg/kg) or high dose of liraglutide ( 200 µg/kg) for 28 days. Cognitive deficits were evaluated using the Morris water maze test. The expression levels of phosphoinositide 3‑kinase ( PI3K) , protein kinase B ( Akt) , phosphorylated ( p) Akt , AMP‑activated protein kinase ( AMPK) , mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR) , Beclin‑1 , microtubule‑associated protein light chain 3 ( LC) 3 II , caspase‑3 , B‑cell lymphoma 2 ( Bcl‑2) associated X protein and Bcl‑2 were assessed by western blot analysis. The results demonstrated that diabetic GK rats exhibited cognitive dysfunction , whereas treatment with liraglutide alleviated the learning and memory deficits , particularly in the high‑dose liraglutide group. The expression levels of Beclin‑1 and LC‑3 II were decreased in GK rats; however , this decrease was alleviated in the presence of liraglutide. Liraglutide also reversed T2DM model‑induced increases in mTOR , and decreases in p‑AMPK , PI3K and p‑Akt expression , and modulated the expression of apoptosis‑associated proteins. Furthermore , the administration of liraglutide inhibited apoptosis and exerted a protective effect against cognitive deficits via the activation of autophagy. In conclusion , the protective effects of liraglutide may be associated with increased mTOR expression via activation of the AMPK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways.