  Magnetic resonance imaging is established as a recognizable tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of multiple sclerosis patients. In the present , among multiple sclerosis centers , there are different magnetic resonance imaging sequences and protocols used to study multiple sclerosis that may hamper the optimal use of magnetic resonance imaging in multiple sclerosis. In this context , the Group of Studies of Multiple Sclerosis and the Portuguese Society of Neuroradiology , after a joint discussion , appointed a committee of experts to create recommendations adapted to the national reality on the use of magnetic resonance imaging in multiple sclerosis. The purpose of this document is to publish the first Portuguese consensus recommendations on the use of magnetic resonance imaging in multiple sclerosis in clinical practice. The Group of Studies of Multiple Sclerosis and the Portuguese Society of Neuroradiology , after discussion of the topic in national meetings and after a working group meeting held in Figueira da Foz on May 2017 , have appointed a committee of experts that have developed by consensus several standard protocols on the use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and follow-up of multiple sclerosis. The document obtained was based on the best scientific evidence and expert opinion. Subsequently , the majority of Portuguese multiple sclerosis consultants and departments of neuroradiology scrutinized and reviewed the consensus paper; comments and suggestions were considered. Technical magnetic resonance imaging protocols regarding diagnostic , monitoring and the recommended information to be included in the magnetic resonance imaging report will be published in a separate paper. We provide some practical guidelines to promote standardized strategies to be applied in the clinical practice setting of Portuguese healthcare professionals regarding the use of magnetic resonance imaging in multiple sclerosis. We hope that these first Portuguese magnetic resonance imaging guidelines , based in the best available clinical evidence and practices , will serve to optimize multiple sclerosis management and improve multiple sclerosis patient care across Portugal.