  Despite multimodal treatment for high-grade gliomas , prognosis remains grim. Prior Radiation Therapy Oncology Group-Recursive Partitioning Analysis ( RTOG-RPA) reports indicate based on pretreatment and treatment-related factors , a subset of patients experience a significantly improved survival. Since the development of the RTOG-RPA , high-grade gliomas have seen the widespread introduction of temozolomide and tumor oncogenetics. Here we aimed to determine whether the RTOG-RPA retained prognostic significance in the context of modern treatment , as well as generate an updated RPA incorporating both clinical and genetic variables. Patients with histologically proven glioblastoma , gliosarcoma , anaplastic astrocytoma , and anaplastic oligodendroglioma treated with intensity-modulated radiation therapy ( IMRT) between 2004 and 2017 were reviewed. The primary endpoint was overall survival from date of diagnosis. Primary analysis compared actual survival rates to that expected of corresponding RTOG-RPA class. Secondary analysis utilized the rpart function to recursively partition overall survival by numerous clinical and genetic pretreatment and treatment-related variables. A tertiary analysis recursively partitioned a subset of patients in which the status of all genetic markers were known. We identified 878 patients with histologically proven high-grade glioma treated with IMRT and 291 patients in our genetic subset. Median overall survival for the entire cohort was 14.2 months ( 95 % confidence interval , 13.1-15.3). Applying the RTOG-RPA to our cohort validated the relative prognostic ordering of the survival classes except class II. Generating our new RPA created 7 significantly different survival classes ( P < 0.001 , χ = 584) with median survival ranging from 96.4 to 2.9 months based on age , histology , O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase methylation status , radiation fractions , tumor location , radiation dose , temozolomide status , and resection status. Our second RPA of our genetic subset generated 5 significantly different survival classes ( P < 0.001 , χ = 166) with survival ranging from 65.3 to 5.6 months based on age , isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 mutation status , O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase methylation status , neurological functional classification , hospitalization during IMRT , temozolomide status , and Karnofsky performance status. The RTOG-RPA retains partial prognostic significance , however , should be updated to reflect recent advancements. This series represents a large RPA analyzing both clinical and genetic factors and generated 7 distinct survival classes. Further assessment of patients with fully available genetic markers generated 5 distinct survival classes. These survival classifications need to be validated by a prospective data set and compared against the RTOG-RPA to determine whether they provide improved prognostic power.