  Predictive DNA analysis of externally visible characteristics exerts an increasing influence on contemporary forensic and anthropological investigations , with pigmentation traits currently being the most advanced for predictive modelling. Since pigmentation prediction error in some cases may be due to the result of age-related hair colour darkening , and sex influence in eye colour , this study aims to investigate these less explored phenomena on a group of juvenile individuals. Pigmentation phenotypes of children between the age of 6-13 years old were evaluated , in addition to data about their hair colour during early childhood from a select number of these individuals. The HIrisPlex models for DNA-based eye and hair colour prediction were used with input from SNP genotyping using massive parallel sequencing. Analysis of the total group of 476 children showed high accuracy in blue ( AUC = 0.89) and brown ( AUC = 0.91) eye colour prediction , while hair colour was predicted with AUC = 0.64 for blond , AUC = 0.64 for brown and AUC = 0.97 for red. 70.8 % ( n = 143) of the total number of children phenotypically blond for hair colour during early childhood progressed to brown during advanced childhood. In 70.6 % ( n = 101) of those cases , an incorrect blond hair prediction was made during the time of analysis. A noticeable decline in AUC values for blond ( from 0.76 to 0.65) and brown ( from 0.72 to 0.64) were observed when comparing hair colour prediction outcomes for the phenotypes recorded for the two different time points ( at the age of 2-3 and 6-13). The number of incorrect blond hair colour predictions was significantly higher in children with brown hair at age 6-13 who were blond at early childhood ( n = 47 , 32.9 %) , relative to children who had brown hair at both time points ( n = 6 , 9.4 %). However , in 28.0 % ( n = 40) of children who did experience hair colour darkening , HIrisPlex provided the correct prediction for the darkened hair colour phenotype , despite them being blond in early childhood. Our study implies that HIrisPlex can correctly predict adult hair colour in some individuals who experience age-related hair colour darkening during adolescence. However , in most instances prediction seems to default to the pre-adolescent hair colour for individuals with this phenomenon. In the future , the full adolescent age range in which hair colour darkening can occur should be considered in the study samples used for training hair colour prediction models to obtain a more complete picture of the phenomenon and its impact on DNA-based hair colour prediction in adults.