  This study reviewed outcomes of hearing preservation ( HP) surgery depending on the angle of insertion ( AOI) in a cochlear implant ( CI) patient population who used electric stimulation ( ES) or combined electric-acoustic stimulation ( EAS). Retrospective case review. Tertiary referral university hospital. Ninety-one patients with different degrees of preoperative low-frequency residual hearing who underwent HP surgery with a free-fitting lateral-wall electrode array ( MED-EL Flex) with lengths ranging from 20.0 to 31.5 mm. Cochlear implantation using HP surgery technique and subsequent fitting with CI speech processor for ES , or combined CI and hearing aid speech processor for EAS. Individual AOI were estimated using modified Stenvers ' projection. Freiburg monosyllable test in quiet ( free-field presentation at 65 dB SPL) and pure-tone averages for low frequencies ( 125 , 250 , and 500 Hz; PTAlow) were evaluated during a follow-up period of 12 months after implantation. Estimated AOIs showed bimodal distribution: shallow insertion ( SI) with mean AOI of 377 degrees and deep insertion ( DI) with mean AOI of 608 degrees. Speech test scores after 12 months were comparable between AOI groups , however , they were significantly different between stimulation types with better scores for EAS. Only ES showed a positive correlation ( r = 0.293) between speech test score and AOI. When HP was possible , both SI and DI showed significant postoperative PTAlow shifts with mean of 17.8 and 21.6 dB , respectively. These were comparable between AOI groups and no significant shifts were observed in follow-up intervals. Audiometric indication for HP and subsequent EAS is proposed up to 65 dB HL at 500 Hz , and up to 87 dB HL for HP. CI candidates can benefit from HP surgery with deep insertion when only using ES due to insufficient residual hearing. Conversely , candidates with preoperative threshold up to 65 dB HL at 500 Hz could perform significantly better with EAS which requires shallow insertion.