  Mouse Cx50D47A and human Cx50D47N are non-functional connexin mutants that cause dominantly-inherited cataracts. In tissue culture expression experiments , they both exhibit impaired cellular trafficking and gap junction plaque formation. Lenses of mice expressing Cx50D47A have cataracts , reduced size , drastically decreased levels of connexin50 , and less severely reduced levels of connexin46. The PERK-dependent pathway of the ER response to misfolded proteins is activated , and they have impaired differentiation with retained cellular organelles. Since treatments that enhance protein folding improve trafficking and plaque formation by Cx50D47N and other mutant connexins in vitro , and they are successful therapeutics for some other diseases caused by misfolded proteins , we tested the efficacy of the chemical chaperone , 4-phenylbutyrate ( 4-PBA) in cultured cells and mice expressing Cx50D47A. 4-PBA treatment increased the formation of Cx50D47A-containing plaques at appositional membranes<symptom> of transiently transfected HeLa cells. Heterozygous Cx50D47A mice were treated with 4-PBA by addition to the drinking water and parenteral injection of pregnant mice ( starting 10 days after pairing of males and females) and their pups. Lenses from 1-month-old mice were examined by darkfield illumination and immunofluorescence microscopy. Protein levels were determined by immunoblotting. Cataract size and density were not detectably different between the control and the 4-PBA-treated groups. Lens size was not increased following treatment. Levels of connexin46 and connexin50 were significantly increased in 4-PBA-treated lenses compared with saline-treated lenses. Immunofluorescence showed an increased abundance of connexin46 immunoreactivity and puncta. The ratio of phosphorylated to total EIF2α was not altered , and levels of organellar proteins were not significantly reduced , suggesting that the ER response to misfolded proteins and differentiation were not changed. Thus , treatment with 4-PBA improved critical pathological issues in these mice ( low connexin and gap junction abundance) , but the magnitude of this recovery ( especially for Cx50) was inadequate to impact the reduced size or the opacification of Cx50D47A lenses.