  The peanut supply chain in Malaysia is dominated by three main stakeholders ( importers , manufacturers , retailers). The present study aimed to determine the levels and critical points of aflatoxin and fungal contamination in peanuts along the supply chain. Specifically , two types of raw peanuts and six types of peanut-based products were collected ( N = 178). Samples were analysed for aflatoxins by using high-performance liquid chromatography. Results revealed that the aflatoxin contamination was significantly higher ( P ≤ 0.05) in raw peanuts and peanut-based products from the retailers. However , there was no significant difference ( P ≥ 0.05) in fungal contamination for both types of peanuts except for the total fungal count in raw peanuts from the retailers. Furthermore , raw peanut kernels from the retailers were the most contaminated ones ranged from < LOD to 1021.4 µg/kg ( mean: 120.7 µg/kg , median: 1.4 µg/kg) followed by the samples collected from the manufacturers which was ranged from < LOD to 181.9 µg/kg ( mean: 20.5 µg/kg , median: 0.0 µg/kg). About 38 % and 22 % of the samples from the retailers and manufacturers were found to have exceeded the Malaysian Regulation limit ( raw peanuts: 15 µg/kg; peanut-based products: 10 µg/kg) , respectively. In contrast , no aflatoxins were detected in samples from the importers. On the other hand , 15.0 % and 5.9 % of peanut-based products from retailers and manufacturers , respectively , were found to have exceeded the limit. Fungal contamination ( 0.3-3.6 log CFU/g) was relatively higher in raw peanuts compared to that of peanut-based products ( 0.6-2.7 log CFU/g). In conclusion , the manufacturers and retailers were the critical points for aflatoxin contamination in peanuts. However , fungal contamination was more critical in the raw peanuts compared to peanut-based products. The study was limited by a minimal number of samples from the importer. Therefore , further investigations on a larger sample size should be conducted to confirm the findings in this present study.