  Background and aim Physicians ' attitudes predict clinical decision making and treatment choices , but the association between attitudes and behaviour is complex. Treatment guidelines for non-specific low back pain ( LBP) include recommendations of early assessment of psychosocial risk factors forchronic pain , patient education and reassurance. Implication of these principles is demanding , and many patients are not referred for appropriate treatments due to a lack of systematic screening of psychosocial risk factors for chronic<symptom> pain<symptom>. Even though health care providers recognise the need for psychosocial assessment in LBP , psychosocial issues are seldom raised in acute settings. The aim of this study is to evaluate how physicians ' attitudes towards assessing psychological issues of LBP patients are associated with their treatment practice , and to assess if their clinical actions follow current treatment guidelines. Methods The study was amixed methods study of primary care physicians ( n = 55) in Finland. Physicians ' attitudes were measured with a psychological subscale of attitudes to back pain scales for musculoskeletal practitioners ( ABS-mp). Treatment practice of LBP was evaluated by as king physicians to describe a typical LBP treatment process and by asking them to solve a LBP patient case. Members of the research team individually evaluated the degree to which psychosocial issues were taken into account in the treatment process and in the patient case answer. Qualitative and quantitative data were combined to examine the role of attitudes in the treatment of LBP. Results The attitudes of physicians were generally psychologically oriented. Physicians who addressed to psychosocial issues in their treatment practice were more psychologically oriented in their attitudes than physicians who did not consider psychosocial issues. Only 20 % of physicians mentioned psychosocial issues as being a part of the LBP patient 's typical treatment process , while 87 % of physicians paid attention to psychosocial issues in the LBP patient case. On the level of the treatment process , radiological investigations were over-represented and pain assessment , patient information and reassurance infrequently performed when compared to LBP guidelines. Conclusions Although primary care physicians were generally psychosocially oriented in their attitudes on LBP , psychological issues were inconsistently brought up in their reported clinical behaviour. Physicians recognised the need to assess psychosocial factors. Those who were psychologically oriented in their attitudes were more inclined to take psychosocial issues into account. However on a process level , evaluation and treatment of LBP featured biomechanical principles. LBP guidelines were only partially followed. Implications Clinical behaviour of physicians in the treatment of LBP is complex and only partly explained by attitudes.