  To explore the experiences and perspectives of the healthcare professionals who were trained to and delivered `` Minimise Fatigue<symptom> , Maximise Life '' ( MFML) , a patient-centered group-based fatigue<symptom> self-management program for persons with multiple sclerosis. A qualitative descriptive study with semi-structured individual interviews at two time points. Data were analyzed for themes. Six healthcare professional facilitators who were trained to and delivered `` Minimise Fatigue<symptom> , Maximise Life '' participated in a first interview , and five in a second. Participants were all female , aged between 23 and 66 years old and either occupational therapists or physiotherapists. Two themes were evident in the data. The first , `` Reciprocity , '' showed how the healthcare professionals were trained to deliver MFML , then reciprocated in the program delivery as active participants , which then provided feelings of personal reward and expansion of their usual practice. The second , `` Enhancements , '' encompassed suggested directions for future training and deliveries of the program. This study suggests that multidimensional patient centered interventions also benefit the healthcare professionals who provide them because it expands their practice. Healthcare professionals who recognize the benefits of innovative and patient-centered interventions , supports both the patients with whom they work , and adds value to the health services they provide. Implications for rehabilitation Healthcare professionals who undergo training to facilitate delivery of self-management programs , which are based in an empowerment model , report an enhancement or expansion of their traditional practice. An empowerment-based program delivered in a group situation encourages and facilitates people to draw on their own and peers ' knowledge and expertise to problem solve for self-management. Healthcare professional education should facilitate the healthcare professional 's learning , and ability and willingness to acknowledge the richness in knowledge and expertise held by their patients.