  In forensic odontology the comparison between antemortem and postmortem panoramic radiographs ( PRs) is a reliable method for person identification. The purpose of this study was to improve and automate identification of unknown people by comparison between antemortem and postmortem PR using computer vision. The study includes 43 467 PRs from 24 545 patients ( 46 % females/54 % males). All PRs were filtered and evaluated with Matlab R2014b including the toolboxes image processing and computer vision system. The matching process used the SURF feature to find the corresponding points between two PRs ( unknown person and database entry) out of the whole database. From 40 randomly selected persons , 34 persons ( 85 %) could be reliably identified by corresponding PR matching points between an already existing scan in the database and the most recent PR. The systematic matching yielded a maximum of 259 points for a successful identification between two different PRs of the same person and a maximum of 12 corresponding matching points for other non-identical persons in the database. Hence 12 matching points are the threshold for reliable assignment. Operating with an automatic PR system and computer vision could be a successful and reliable tool for identification purposes. The applied method distinguishes itself by virtue of its fast and reliable identification of persons by PR. This Identification method is suitable even if dental characteristics were removed or added in the past. The system seems to be robust for large amounts of data. · Computer vision allows an automated antemortem and postmortem comparison of panoramic radiographs ( PRs) for person identification.. · The present method is able to find identical matching partners among huge datasets ( big data) in a short computing time.. · The identification method is suitable even if dental characteristics were removed or added.. · Heinrich A , Güttler F , Wendt S et al.. Forensic Odontology: Automatic Identification of Persons Comparing Antemortem and Postmortem Panoramic Radiographs Using Computer Vision. Fortschr Röntgenstr 2018; DOI: 10.1055/ a-0632-4744.