  Preeclampsia ( PE) is an important disease affecting maternal and neonatal pregnancy. Long non-coding RNA plays an important role in preeclampsia. This study aims to explore the role of HOXA distal transcript antisense RNA ( HOTTIP) in preeclampsia. The expression of HOTTIP in placentas of preeclampsia and normal pregnancy was detected by polymerase chain reaction ( PCR). The difference of clinical data between high expression HOTTIP group and low expression HOTTIP group was compared to explore the relationship between HOTTIP and the progress of preeclampsia. Cell proliferation and cell cycle were detected after overexpression and interference with HOTTIP. Western blot was finally used for detecting protein expression. By analyzing the clinical data , we found that systolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , and urinary protein in preeclampsia patients were significantly higher than those in normal pregnant women. The birth weight of fetuses was significantly lower than that of normal pregnant women. Through PCR results , we found that the expression of HOTTIP in patients with preeclampsia was significantly lower , and the maternal systolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , diastolic blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> and urinary protein in the low expression HOTTIP group were significantly higher than that in the high expression group. Fetal birth weight was significantly lower than the high expression group. After overexpression and interference with HOTTIP , it was found that overexpression of HOTTIP significantly increased the proliferation of trophoblast cells and markedly accelerated the cycle. Interfering with HOTTIP , trophoblast cell proliferation was significantly reduced and cell cycle was arrested. By Western blotting , we found that HOTTIP regulated the progression of preeclampsia via Rho family GTPase 3 ( RND3). HOTTIP was lowly expressed in preeclampsia and was able to suppress the progression of preeclampsia.