  Glutamate is the major excitatory amino acid in the mammalian CNS and is involved in transmission of pain together with processes for cognition , memory and learning. In order to terminate glutamatergic neurotransmission and avoid excitotoxic damage , a balanced glutamate homeostasis is of critical importance. The level of glutamate in the synaptic cleft is regulated through the action of five subtypes of excitatory amino acid transporters ( EAAT1-5). Ceftriaxone , a β-lactam , induces EAAT-2 and has proven effect for the treatment of neuropathic pain. This pilot study investigated the effects of ceftriaxone upon acute and inflammatory<symptom> pain<symptom> and additionally , the analgesic effect of ceftriaxone after introduction of neuropathic pain. Methods Rats were tested before , during and after treatment of ceftriaxone for changes in response to both mechanical and thermal stimuli , using calibrated von Frey filaments and Hargreaves instrument , respectively. Inflammatory responses were investigated by assessing the response to intra-plantar injections of formalin; lastly , neuropathic pain was introduced using the spinal nerve ligation ( SNL) model after which changes in both mechanical and thermal responses were again investigated. Results A significant increase in mechanical withdrawal threshold was observed following acute<symptom> pain<symptom> inducement in ceftriaxone treated rats. A marked increase in thermal withdrawal latency was also observed. In response to intra plantar administered formalin , ceftriaxone delayed the intensity of nocifensive behaviours. Applying the SNL model of neuropathic pain on naive rats created significant mechanical allodynia , but only a negligibly different response to thermal stimulation. After treatment with ceftriaxone the treated rats developed a hypoalgesic response to thermal stimulation , whilst the response to mechanical pain was insignificant. Conclusion In conclusion , ceftriaxone clearly interfered in the transmission of noxious signalling and proved in this study to have an effect upon acute thermal and mechanical pain thresholds as well as pathologic pain conditions. The present results are a piece in the large puzzle where administration route , dosage and pain models must be thoroughly investigated before a study can be planned for a proof of concept in different clinical pain states. Implications The current study demonstrates that ceftriaxone has a mitigating effect upon many pain modalities including acute and inflammatory , and that these modalities should be included in future studies characterising the anti-nociceptive effect of beta-lactams such as ceftriaxone. The fact that β-lactams also has antibiotic properties implies that similar chemical structures could be identified with the positive effect upon expression levels of EAAT2 , but lacking the antibiotic side effect.