  Maternal prenatal smoking is associated with downstream childhood obesity. Although animal research suggests reduced resting energy expenditure ( REE) , decreased physical activity ( PA) , and increased energy intake as mechanisms , these relationships are unclear in humans. The objectives were to examine the association of prenatal maternal smoking with non-volitional energy expenditure ( REE and the thermic effect of feeding ( TEF)) , child adiposity , energy intake , free-living PA ( daily light PA ( LPA) , daily moderate-to-vigorous PA ( MVPA) , daily sedentary behavior ( SB)) , and screen time ( television and computer/video game) in children. As part of a longitudinal study , 46 children ( n = 27 controls and n = 19 smoking exposed) with mean age 7.6 ± 2 years were recruited. Body<symptom> weight and composition ( Bioelectrical Impedance) , height ( Stadiometer) , waist circumference ( cm; tape) , BMI ( kg/m Relative to controls , after controlling for age and family income , children who were exposed to cigarette smoke in utero exhibited greater waist circumference ( p = 0.04 , Cohen 's d = 1.03) , percent body fat (; p = 0.02 , Cohen 's d = 0.97) , and a trend for BMI ( p = 0.05 , Cohen 's d = 0.86). Exposed children did not differ in REE ( trend for lower: p = 0.1 , Cohen 's d = 0.42) or TEF but were shown to have significantly higher ad libitum energy intake ( p = 0.02 , Cohen 's D = 0.70) from the palatable lunch buffet , but not from the out of laboratory 7-day energy intake ( p = 0.8). Examining screen time behaviors , exposed children spent more time watching television during the week ( p = 0.03 , Cohen 's D = 0.82) , and overall television watching ( p = 0.02 , Cohen 's D = 0.80); there were no group differences in any other screen time behaviors. Children exposed to cigarette smoke in utero exhibit greater adiposity , and this exposure may have as contributing factors higher screen time , ad libitum energy intake , and a trend for reduced REE. The data suggest that lifestyle factors such as diet and screen time represent targets for obesity prevention in a high-risk population of young children exposed to prenatal cigarette smoke. Findings also highlight the need for smoking cessation programs to reduce downstream obesity in offspring.