  In type 2 diabetes , we aimed at clarifying the role of glycated haemoglobin variability and other risk factors in the development of the main micro-vascular complications: peripheral neuropathy , nephropathy and retinopathy. In a single-centre cohort of 900 patients , glycated haemoglobin variability was evaluated as intra-individual standard deviation , adjusted standard deviation and coefficient of variation of serially measured glycated haemoglobin in the 2-year period before a randomly selected index visit. We devised four models considering different aspects of glycated haemoglobin evolution. Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis was performed including the following covariates at the index visit: age , disease duration , body mass index , total cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , triglycerides , sex , smoking habit , hypertension , dyslipidemia , treatment with anti-diabetic drugs , occurrence of macro-vascular events and the presence of another micro-vascular complication. Males with high mean glycated haemoglobin , long duration of diabetes , presence of macro-vascular events and retinopathy emerged at higher risk for peripheral neuropathy. Development of nephropathy was independently associated with higher glycated haemoglobin variability , older age , male sex , current smoking status , presence of retinopathy , of peripheral neuropathy and of hypertension. Higher mean glycated haemoglobin , younger age , longer duration of diabetes , reduced estimated glomerular filtration rate and the presence of peripheral neuropathy were significantly associated with increased incidence of retinopathy. Glycated haemoglobin variability was associated with increased incidence of nephropathy , while mean glycated haemoglobin emerged as independent risk factor for the development of retinopathy and peripheral neuropathy. The presence of macro-vascular events was positively correlated with peripheral neuropathy. Finally , the occurrence of another micro-vascular complication was found to be a stronger risk factor for developing another micro-vascular complication than the mean or variability of glycated haemoglobin.