  The objective of this study is to identify patient reported experiences of using community rehabilitation and/or support services whilst living with a long-term neurological condition , and perceptions of their impact on quality of life. Nine electronic databases were searched for peer-reviewed qualitative studies from 2005 to 2016 , which met the inclusion criteria. Critical appraisal , data extraction , and quality assessment of 37 included papers were performed by three reviewers. One hundred and one findings were extracted. Meta-aggregation was used to synthesize findings. Seven ` synthesized findings ' ( SF) were produced: Interactions with some professionals provide active participation , choice , confidence and autonomy ( SF1); Interactions with some professionals are disempowering and depersonalized ( SF2); Effective communication , specialist knowledge and an individualized approach to information provision is needed ( SF3); Indicators of success vary and may not be clear ( SF4); Informal support from family/friends is valued ( SF5); Opportunities for peer support/social interaction is valued ( SF6); Coordination required to ensure continuity during transition to community ( SF7). Patient reported experiences identified common factors associated with process quality ( respect , choice , autonomy , information provision , communication) and activities of patient centered care ( personalized care , shared decision-making , self-management support) despite heterogeneity of neurological conditions , service configurations , and geographical location. These factors impact quality of life. Implications for Rehabilitation Patient reported experiences provide useful information about courtesy , respect , choice , autonomy , information provision , and communication. Outcomes of self-efficacy and self-management are important for people with stable and progressive long-term neurological conditions. Interactions with individual professionals influence engagement , self-efficacy , and self-management for people with long-term neurological conditions. Training for health and social care professionals should develop the advanced communication skills and behavior required to facilitate self-efficacy and self-management.