  Restaging after neoadjuvant therapy aims to reduce the number of patients undergoing esophagectomy in case of distant ( interval) metastases. The aim of this study is to systematically review and meta-analyze the diagnostic performance of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ( 18F-FDG PET) and 18F-FDG PET/CT for the detection of distant interval metastases after neoadjuvant therapy in patients with esophageal cancer. PubMed/MEDLINE , Embase , and the Cochrane library were systematically searched. The analysis included diagnostic studies reporting on the detection of distant interval metastases with 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) in patients with esophageal cancer who received neoadjuvant therapy and both baseline staging and restaging after neoadjuvant therapy with 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) imaging. The primary outcome measure was the proportion of patients in whom distant interval metastases were detected by 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) as confirmed by pathology or clinical follow-up ( i.e. true positives). The secondary outcome measure was the proportion of patients in whom 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) restaging was false positive for distant interval metastases ( i.e. false positives). Risk of bias and applicability concerns were assessed using the QUADAS-2 tool. Random-effect models were used to estimate pooled outcomes and examine potential sources of heterogeneity. Fourteen studies were included comprising a total of 1,110 patients who received baseline staging with 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) imaging of whom 1,001 ( 90 %) underwent restaging with 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) imaging. Studies were generally of moderate quality. The pooled proportion of patients in whom true distant interval metastases were detected by 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) restaging was 8 % ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI): 5-13 %). The pooled proportion of patients in whom false positive distant findings were detected by 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) restaging was 5 % ( 95 % CI: 3-9 %). In conclusion,18F-FDG PET (/ CT) restaging after neoadjuvant therapy for esophageal cancer detects true distant interval metastases in 8 % of patients. Therefore , 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) restaging can considerably impact on treatment decision-making. However , false positive distant findings occur in 5 % of patients at restaging with 18F-FDG PET (/ CT) , underlining the need for pathological confirmation of suspected