  This study evaluated the effects of including 15 % of raw or fermented rapeseed cake ( RRC and FRC , respectively) in turkey diets on the growth performance , antioxidant and immune status , and intestinal morphology of birds. Rapeseed cake was fermented using the commercial 6-phytase enzyme preparation , and dried. A total of 1,350 day-old female Hybrid Converter turkeys were randomly allocated to 3 dietary treatments with 9 replicates per treatment and 50 birds per replicate. All diets were isonitrogenous and isocaloric , and contained various protein sources. In the control group ( C) , soybean meal was the main source of dietary protein , and the remaining groups were fed diets containing 15 % of RRC or FRC. Fermentation considerably reduced the concentrations of phytate-phosphorus and glucosinolates in rapeseed cake. In comparison with RRC , turkeys receiving FRC achieved higher average final body<symptom> weight ( BW) , comparable with that noted in the control group. Both RRC and FRC stimulated the antioxidant system of turkeys , which was reflected in a decrease in the concentrations of lipid hydroperoxides ( LOOH) and malondialdehyde ( MDA) , and an increase in the total antioxidant potential ( FRAP) and the concentration of total glutathione ( GSH + GSSG) in blood plasma , compared with the control group. Turkeys fed diets with RRC were characterized by the highest blood vitamin C concentrations , the highest activities of superoxide dismutase ( SOD) and glutathione peroxidase ( GPx) , and lower catalase ( CAT) activity. The dietary inclusion of rapeseed cake contributed to an increase in villus height and mucosal thickness in the duodenum , and a more beneficial influence was exerted by RRC. It can be concluded that the fermentation of rapeseed cake considerably reduces the concentrations of glucosinolates and phytate-phosphorus , and increases the final BW of turkeys. Diets containing 15 % of RRC and FRC do not compromise metabolic parameters or immune function , and exert positive effects on antioxidant status and intestinal histomorphology in turkeys.