  The atrioventricular ( AV) node is an anatomically well-defined structure , conveniently housed in the triangle of Koch. There are two distinct atrial impulse approaches to the AV node , one of which ( in the anterior portion of triangle of Koch) has a faster conduction , while the other one ( in the posterior portion) has a slower conduction. However , it is not said that such a conductive duality translates into any arrhythmic phenomena. Actually , these arrhythmias are due to an imbalance of the two pathways electrophysiological properties , which does not always exist. In the presence of such an imbalance , the dual AV nodal physiology is , however , the substrate for various arrhythmias and curious electrocardiographic behaviors. Often the fast pathway is characterized by a relatively long refractory period. In contrast , the slow approach is often characterized by shorter refractoriness.The unbalanced refractoriness of the two nodal pathways constitutes the prerequisite for the most common form of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia<symptom>: the AV nodal reentrant tachycardia<symptom> ( AVNRT). In subjects prone to this type of arrhythmia , during sinus rhythm , nodal conduction usually occurs from the anterior approach ( fast pathway). However , a premature atrial beat may find this pathway refractory and cross the AV node through the posterior approach ( slow pathway) , resulting in a sudden prolongation of the AV conduction time ( `` jump ''). This allows the impulse , once it reaches the common end , to excitate the fast pathway in a retrograde direction and to return backwards to the atrium , thus triggering a circus movement that can result in a `` slow-fast '' AVNRT. More rarely , an AVNRT can take place in an opposite direction of the reentrant impulse ( `` fast-slow '' variety of AVNRT). A paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia<symptom> may seldom occur with a regularly alternating RR cycle , if the reentrant mechanism involves retrogradely an accessory AV pathway and , in anterograde direction , a fast and a slow AV nodal pathway , alternately. Among the mechanisms underlying the total RR irregularity during atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> , there is probably also the possibility that the AV node may offer to the atrial impulses two distinct pathways to reach the His bundle. Not too rarely , a dual AV nodal physiology can occur during sinus rhythm , through unexpected and sudden changes in the AV conduction time , so that two distinct PR families can be observed. It is likely that the presence of dual AV nodal pathways can facilitate or promote a Wenckebach conduction mechanism at nodal site.