  Background and aims Thoracotomies can cause severe<symptom> pain<symptom> , which persists in 21-67 % of patients. We investigated whether NSAID + intravenous patient-controlled analgesia ( IV-PCA) with morphine is an efficacious alternative to thoracic epidural analgesia ( TEA). We also wanted to find out whether an extended controlled pain management protocol within a clinical study can decrease the incidence of persistent post-thoracotomy pain. Methods Thirty thoracotomy patients were randomized into 3 intervention groups with 10 patients in each. G1: preoperative diclofenac 75 mg orally +150 mg/24h IV for 44h , then PO; G2: valdecoxib 40 mg orally + parecoxib 80mg/24h IV for 44h , then PO. IV-PCA morphine was available in groups 1 and 2 during pleural drainage , and an intercostal nerve block at the end of surgery was performed; G3: parac-etamol + patient controlled epidural analgesia ( PCEA) with a background infusion of bupivacaine with fentanyl. After PCA/PCEA oxycodone PO was provided when needed. These patients were contacted one week , 3 and 6 months after discharge. Patients ( N = 111) not involved in the study were treated according to hospital practice and served as a control group. The control patients ' data from the perioperative period were extracted , and a prospective follow-up questionnaire at 6 months after surgery similar to the intervention group was mailed. Results The intended sample size was not reached in the intervention group because of the global withdrawal of valdecoxib , and the study was terminated prematurely. At 6 months 3 % of the intervention patients and 24 % ofthe control patients reported persistent pain ( p < 0.01). Diclofenac and valdecoxib provided similar analgesia , and in the combined NSAID group ( diclofenac + valdecoxib) movement-related pain was milder in the PCEA group compared with the NSAID group. The duration of pain after coughing was shorter in the PCEA group compared with the NSAID+IV- PCA group. The only patient with persistent painat6 months postoperatively had a considerably longer duration ofpain after coughing than the other Study patients. The patients with mechanical hyperalgesia had more pain on movement. Conclusions Both PCEA and NSAID+IV- PCA morphine provided sufficient analgesia with little persistent pain compared with the incidence of persistent pain in the control group. High quality acute<symptom> pain<symptom> management and follow-up continuing after discharge could be more important than the analgesic method per se in preventing persistent post-thoracotomy pain. In the acute phase the measurement of pain when coughing and the duration of pain after coughing could be easy measures to recognize patients having a higher risk for persistent post-thoracotomy pain. Implications To prevent persistent post-thoracotomy pain , the extended protocol for high quality pain management in hospital covering also the sub-acute phase at home , is important. This study also provides some evidence that safe and effective alternatives to thoracic epidural analgesia do exist. The idea to include the standard `` as usual '' care patients as a control group and to compare them with the intervention patients provides valuable information of the added value of being a study patient , and deserves further consideration in future studies.