  Aubry , RL , Power , GA , and Burr , JF. An assessment of running power as a training metric for elite and recreational runners. J Strength Cond Res 32 ( 8): 2258-2264 , 2018-Power , as a testing and training metric to quantify effort , is well accepted in cycling , but is not commonly used in running to quantify effort or performance. This study sought to investigate a novel training tool , the Stryd Running Power Meter , and the applicability of running power ( and its individually calculated run mechanics) to be a useful surrogate of metabolic demand ( V ( Combining Dot Above) O2) , across different running surfaces , within different caliber runners. Recreational ( n = 13) and elite ( n = 11) runners completed a test assessing V ( Combining Dot Above) O2 at 3 different paces , while wearing a Stryd Power Meter on both an indoor treadmill and an outdoor track , to investigate relationships between estimated running power and metabolic demand. A weak but significant relationship was found between running power and V ( Combining Dot Above) O2 considering all participants as a homogenous group ( r = 0.29); however , when assessing each population individually , no significant relationship was found. Examination of the individual mechanical components of power revealed that a correlative decrease in V ( Combining Dot Above) O2 representing improved efficiency was associated with decreased ground contact time ( r = 0.56) , vertical oscillation ( r = 0.46) , and cadence ( r = 0.37) on the treadmill in the recreational group only. Although metabolic demand differed significantly between surfaces at most speeds , run power did not accurately reflect differences in metabolic cost between the 2 surfaces. Running power , calculated via the Stryd Power Meter , is not sufficiently accurate as a surrogate of metabolic demand , particularly in the elite population. However , in a recreational population , this training tool could be useful for feedback on several running dynamics known to influence running economy.