  Laser and intense pulsed light ( IPL) are standard symptomatic treatments for superficial telangiectasias , but postoperative erythema , oedema , and pain may prolong downtime. To investigate whether topical brimonidine reduces IPL-induced inflammation<symptom> in patients with moderate to severe facial telangiectasias. A randomized , two-centre , single-blinded , split-face trial on adjuvant brimonidine and air-cooling versus air-cooling alone ( control) in 19 patients treated in Denmark ( n = 10 patients) and Belgium ( n = 9). Brimonidine was applied to the allocated side after each of three facial IPL-treatments , given at 3-week intervals. Patients were assessed up to 1 month after the final treatment. Outcome measures included blinded clinical on-site evaluation of erythema and oedema ( 5-point-scales) , objective erythema-scores ( red-filter analysis) , patient-evaluated pain ( Visual Analogue Scale) , IPL-efficacy ( blinded photo-evaluation of telangiectasia clearance) , and patient preference. In total , 19 patients were enrolled and completed the study. IPL induced moderate to severe erythema after each treatment. Application of brimonidine , reduced erythema to baseline values compared to air-cooling alone and sustained efficacy 24 hours after treatment ( median difference reduction: score 1 at each assessment , P ≤ 0.022). Objective erythema-scores supported clinical findings , demonstrating a median erythema reduction of 50-95 % after application of brimonidine and air-cooling compared to 9-28 % reduction after air-cooling alone ( P ≥ 0.002). No difference in reduction of IPL-induced oedema was observed between facial sides ( P ≥ 0.227). Brimonidine and air-cooling slightly and consistently reduced postoperative pain compared to air-cooling alone ( VAS 1.0 after brimonidine versus VAS 1.5-2.0 after air-cooling alone at treatment 1-3 , P ≤ 0.032). At 1-month follow-up , patients experienced excellent clearance of telangiectasias ( 75-100 % clearance) on both facial sides ( P = 1.000). Patient preference supported clinical data and 79 % of patients preferred brimonidine to control ( P = 0.019). Compared to air-cooling alone , adjuvant brimonidine reduces IPL-induced erythema and associated pain while maintaining a high IPL-efficacy. Lasers Surg. Med.w © 2018 Wiley Periodicals , Inc..