  Avoidance of airway complications and rapid emergence from anaesthesia are indispensable for the use of a laryngeal mask airway ( LMA). Evidence from adequately powered randomised studies with a low risk of bias for the optimal anaesthetic in this context is limited. We tested the hypothesis that when using remifentanil-based intra-operative analgesia , desflurane would be the most suitable anaesthetic: with noninferiority in the occurrence of upper airway complications and superiority in emergence times compared with sevoflurane or propofol. A randomised , multicentre , partially double-blinded , three-arm , parallel-group study. Two university and two regional German hospitals , from February to October 2015. A total of 352 patients ( age 18 to 75 years , ASA physical status I to III , BMI less than 35 kg m and fluent in German) were enrolled in this study. All surgery was elective with a duration of 0.5 to 2 h , and general anaesthesia with a LMA was feasible. The patients were randomised to receive desflurane , sevoflurane or propofol anaesthesia. This study was powered for the primary outcome ` time to state date of birth ' and the secondary outcome ` intra-operative cough<symptom> '. Time to emergence from anaesthesia and the incidence of upper airway complications were assessed on the day of surgery. The primary outcome was analysed for 343 patients: desflurane ( n = 114) , sevoflurane ( n = 111) and propofol ( n = 118). The desflurane group had the fastest emergence. The mean ( ± SD) times to state the date of birth following desflurane , sevoflurane and propofol were 8.1 ± 3.6 , 10.1 ± 4.0 and 9.8 ± 5.1 min , respectively ( P < 0.01). There was no difference in upper airway complications ( cough<symptom> and laryngospasm) across the groups , but these complications were less frequent than in previous studies. When using a remifentanil infusion for intra-operative analgesia in association with a LMA , desflurane was associated with a significantly faster emergence and noninferiority in the incidence of intra-operative cough<symptom> than either sevoflurane or Propofol. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02322502; EudraCT identifier: 2014-003810-96.