  The Central Standard Drugs Control Organization ( CDSCO) issued an administrative order in November 201 3 mandating audiovisual ( AV) recording of the informed consent process for all regulatory studies. At this point , a phase 2/3 trial ongoing at our centre had recruited 45 participants using the written , informed consent process. Another 40 participants were recruited after the order and underwent AV recording of the consent process. We assessed the difference in participants ' understanding between the two consenting processes as the trial fortuitously had both forms of consent. A 16-item questionnaire with six domains ( purpose , study procedures , risks , benefits , payment for participation , and rights and confidentiality) was designed and validated. It was administered to the participants after approval of the institutional ethics committee and written informed consent. Answers given were matched with a template of model answers. The responses were scored as fully correct ( 3) , partially correct ( 2) , ` do n't remember ' ( 1) , and incorrect ( 0) with a total possible score of 48. Between-group analysis was done for total scores and domain-specific scores. Domain-wise analysis was done for the proportion of all categories of responses. The impact of potential confounders on participants ' understanding was also factored in. A total of 38 respondents-21 in the AV consent group and 1 7 in the written consent group-agreed to participate. The total mean ( SD) score of the AV consent group was significantly higher ( 40.3 ( 5.9)) compared to that of the written consent group ( 34.8 ( 7.94); p = 0.01). Between the groups the score was significant in the domains of rights and confidentiality ( p = 0.01). The proportion of participants who gave fully correct answers was statistically significant in the domain of purpose ( p = 0.04). The time elapsed between the original consent and this study showed a weak inverse correlation ( ρ = -0.3 , p = 0.01). AV recording of the informed consent process in a clinical trial appears to improve the understanding of participants relative to the written informed consent alone.