  We aimed to test the hypothesis that the spleen-to-liver-attenuation ratio on portal-venous enhancement phase CT images can identify diffuse splenic infiltration in subjects with lymphoma. A database search yielded 70 subjects with malignant haematological diseases who underwent contrast-enhanced CT ( CECT) between December 2010 and March 2018. Additionally , consecutive control subjects were evaluated. We compared the splenic volume , splenic attenuation , spleen-to-liver , spleen-to-aorta and spleen-to-musculature ratios on portal-venous phase CECT images , pre- to post-treatment and between the different lymphoma entities. The standard of reference for splenic involvement was normalisation of the spleen volume following chemotherapy or normalisation of FDG-uptake. In subjects with diffuse splenic involvement , the spleen attenuation was significantly lower before treatment ( 93.48 HU) compared to controls ( 112.39 HU; p < .01) and after successful treatment ( 113.39 HU; p < .01). The spleen-to-liver attenuation ratio significantly increased after treatment ( p < .001) and proved significantly lower at baseline when compared to control subjects ( p < .01). The spleen volume significantly decreased after successful treatment ( from 586.14.87 cm We suggest the additional use of spleen-to-liver attenuation ratio to splenic volume alone for detection of diffuse splenic infiltration in subjects with lymphoma. The course of spleen-to-liver attenuation ratio inversely correlated with that of FDG-uptake in a subgroup of patients working accurately in normal-sized diffusely involved spleens. • Involvement of the spleen is frequent in haematological malignancies and is important for staging and appropriate treatment. • Diffuse splenic infiltration often results in only homogeneous splenomegaly<symptom> without a focal lesion<symptom> , but even no or only minimal increase in splenic volume is possible. In these cases diagnosis of spleen involvement is a challenge for the radiologist. • Our data support the use of the spleen-to-liver attenuation ratio in addition to size measurements for the detection of diffuse splenic infiltration in subjects with lymphoma.