  Urban particles in Xi'an during summertime were investigated using a single particle aerosol mass spectrometer ( SPAMS). Twelve major particle types were resolved , including EC-Sul-Nit (- Sul stands for sulfate ,- Nit for nitrate , and 25 % in number fraction) , EC ( 6 %) , EC-Nit ( 12 %) and , EC-Sul ( 8 %) , mixed Elemental and Organic Carbon-Sul-Nit ( 9 %) , ECOC-Sul ( 8 %) , K-Nit ( 12 %) , OC ( 8 %) , NaK-Nit ( 5 %) , Fe-Nit ( 5 %) , Ca-Nit ( 1 %) , and Other ( 1 %). Among these particle types , chemical composition , mixing state , and wind-dependent analyses were conducted to investigate their originations and sources. During summertime , traffic-related particles were up to 83 % in the SPAMS dataset. Two major originations of urban particles were identified , including the local aging and short-distance transport mainly from the southeast. Size-resolved relative acidity ( ( sulfate + nitrate)/ ammonium) analysis suggested that urban particles were more acidic with an aerodynamic diameter < 0.8 μm. In diurnal cycle , the strongest relative aerosol acidity occurred between 7:00 and 9:00 in the morning when relative humidity was between 60 and 70 % , and the weakest acidity occurred from 13:00-15:00. Among all major particle types , OC and K-Nit had stronger relative aerosol acidity than other types. Mixing state analysis indicated that the organic semi-volatile vapor is favorable to condense on the OC-related particles ( OC , ECOC-Sul , and ECOC-Sul-Nit) as evidence that primary organic aerosol ( POA) would enhance the secondary organic aerosol ( SOA) formation via gas-to-particle phase partitioning when SOA and POA are miscible. Oxalate also tends to be observed in the droplet of OC-related particles. In addition , the enrichment of oxalate was observed in Fe-Nit particles. This study would be useful to understand the characterization , mixing state , source , origination , and processing of urban particles during summertime in Xi'an as well as the urban areas in the Guanzhong Basin.