  Background and purpose Conditioned pain modulation ( CPM) is a phenomenon in which pain is inhibited by heterotopic noxious stimulation. It is not known how the experimental condition affects the magnitude of the CPM response and the inter-and intra-individual variations. It is important to get the information of the test-retest reliability and inter-individual variations of CPM to apply CPM as a diagnostic tool or for screening analgesic compounds. This study evaluated ( 1) the magnitude of CPM , ( 2) the inter-individual coefficient of variation ( inter-CV) and ( 3) the intra-individual coefficient of variation ( intra-CV) to ( A) different stimulus modalities to evoke CPM and ( B) different assessment sites. Methods Twelve healthy men ( age 19-38 years) participated in this study. Cold pressor pain ( CPP) ( immersing the hand into cold water) , tourniquet pain ( cuff around the upper arm) and mechanical pressure pain<symptom> ( craniofacial region) were used in randomized order as conditioning stimuli ( CS). The test stimulus ( TS) was pressure pain<symptom> applied to the right masseter muscle , left forearm and leg ( bilateral tibialis anterior: TA). The responses were pressure pain<symptom> thresholds ( PPT) , pressure pain<symptom> tolerance ( PPTol) thresholds and the pain intensity which was assessed on a visual analogue scale ( VAS , 0-10 cm) following 1.4 and 1.6 × PPT applied to TA. The TS was applied before , during and 10 min after the CS. The intra-individual CV was estimated between different days. Results CPP induced the most powerful CPM on PPT ( 66.3 ± 10.0 % increase) , VAS ratings ( 41.5 ± 5.3 % reduction) and PPTol ( 32.6 ± 4.6 % increase) , especially at TA , and resulted in the smallest inter-CV ( 41.4-60.1 %). Independently of the CS , the inter-CV in general showed that the recordings from the orofacial region and the forearm had smaller values than from the leg. The smallest intra-CV value was obtained in pain ratings with CPP ( 27.0 %). Conclusions This study suggests that ( 1) the CPP evokes the largest CPM , ( 2) the leg as the assessment site results in the largest CPM responses and ( 3) the CPP causes the smallest inter- and intra-CV. Implication The present investigation implicates that the CPP is the most efficient conditioning stimulus to induce CPM when assessed by pressure pain<symptom> thresholds.