  Nociceptive and neuropathic pain signals are known to result from noxious stimuli , which are converted into electrical impulses within tissue nociceptors. There is a complex equilibrium of pain-signalling and pain-relieving pathways connecting PNS and CNS. Drugs against long-term pain are today directed against increased neuronal excitability , mostly with less success. An injury often starts with acute physiological<symptom> pain<symptom> , which becomes inflammatory , nociceptive , or neuropathic , and may be transferred into long-term pain. Recently a low-grade inflammation<symptom> was identified in the spinal cord and along the pain pathways to thalamus and the parietal cortex. This neuroinflammation is due to activation of glial cells , especially microglia , with production of cytokines and other inflammatory mediators within the CNS. Additionally , substances released to the blood from the injured region influence the blood-brain barrier , and give rise to an increased permeability of the tight junctions of the capillary endothelial cells , leading to passage of blood cells into the CNS. These cells are transformed into reactive microglia. If the inflammation<symptom> turns into a pathological state the astrocytes will be activated. They are coupled into networks and respond to substances released by the capillary endothelial cells , to cytokines released from microglia , and to neurotransmitters and peptides released from neurons. As the astrocytes occupy a strategic position between the vasculature and synapses , they monitor the neuronal activity and transmitter release. Increased release of glutamate and ATP leads to disturbances in Ca2 + signalling , increased production of cytokines and free radicals , attenuation of the astrocyte glutamate transport capacity , and conformational changes in the astrocytic cytoskeleton , the actin filaments , which can lead to formation and rebuilding of new synapses. New neuronal contacts are established for maintaining and spreading pain sensation<symptom> with the astrocytic networks as bridges. Thereby the glial cells can maintain the pain sensation<symptom> even after the original injury has healed , and convert the pain into long-term by altering neuronal excitability. It can even be experienced from other parts of the body. As astrocytes are intimate co-players with neurons in the CNS , more knowledge on astrocyte responses to inflammatory activators may give new insight in our understanding of mechanisms of low-grade inflammation<symptom> underlying long-term pain states and pain spreading. Novel treatment strategies would be to restore glial cell function and thereby attenuate the neuroinflammation.