  Current clinical definitions of diabetes require repeated blood work to confirm elevated levels of glucose or hemoglobin A1c ( HbA1c) to reduce the possibility of a false-positive diagnosis. Whether 2 different tests from a single blood sample provide adequate confirmation is uncertain. To examine the prognostic performance of a single-sample confirmatory definition of undiagnosed diabetes. Prospective cohort study. The ARIC ( Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities) study. 13 346 ARIC participants ( 12 268 without diagnosed diabetes) with 25 years of follow-up for incident diabetes , cardiovascular outcomes , kidney disease , and mortality. Confirmed undiagnosed diabetes was defined as elevated levels of fasting glucose ( ≥ 7.0 mmol/L ( ≥ 126 mg/dL)) and HbA1c ( ≥ 6.5 %) from a single blood sample. Among 12 268 participants without diagnosed diabetes , 978 had elevated levels of fasting glucose or HbA1c at baseline ( 1990 to 1992). Among these , 39 % had both ( confirmed undiagnosed diabetes) , whereas 61 % had only 1 elevated measure ( unconfirmed undiagnosed diabetes). The confirmatory definition had moderate sensitivity ( 54.9 %) but high specificity ( 98.1 %) for identification of diabetes cases diagnosed during the first 5 years of follow-up , with specificity increasing to 99.6 % by 15 years. The 15-year positive predictive value was 88.7 % compared with 71.1 % for unconfirmed cases. Confirmed undiagnosed diabetes was significantly associated with cardiovascular and kidney disease and mortality , with stronger associations than unconfirmed diabetes. Lack of repeated measurements of fasting glucose and HbA1c. A single-sample confirmatory definition of diabetes had a high positive predictive value for subsequent diagnosis and was strongly associated with clinical end points. Our results support the clinical utility of using a combination of elevated fasting glucose and HbA1c levels from a single blood sample to identify undiagnosed diabetes in the population. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute.