  Background and purpose ` Central sensitization ' ( CS) may play a major role in maintaining several chronic<symptom> pain<symptom> conditions. CS has been proposed to play a significant role in a range of musculoskeletal pain conditions , such as trapezius myalgia<symptom> , fibromyalgia , temporomandibular disorders , and low back pain. Whether CS varies over time within an individual is not known. This study evaluated ( 1) whether there is an intraindividual association between clinical pain and signs of CS , and ( 2) whether there is an inter-individual association between clinical pain and signs of CS. Methods Twenty-seven sedentary workers ( 19 women , 8 men) with varying neck/shoulder pain participated in a pre-test and in two test sessions. On one of the test sessions the subjects had weak ( or no) clinical pain ( weak-pain day). On the other test session the subjects had stronger clinical pain ( strong-pain day). As an indicator of ` central sensitization ' , we assessed the area of secondary pinprick hyperalgesia ( tested by 84.4 g/mm2 Von Frey hairs) in response to a first-degree burn to the volar fore-arm ( contact heat , 46 °C , 5 min). While in the lab , the subjects ' current clinical pain intensity ( 0-10 cm VAS) and distribution was assessed ( PINTlab and PDISTlab). The subjects also rated their pain intensity and distribution retrospectively from the past 30 days ( PINT30 d and PDIST30 d). Results PINTlab was lower on the weak-pain day ( 1.7 ± 1.5 cm) than on the strong-pain day ( 4.3 ± 1.6 cm). This was also the case for the other clinical pain measures ( PDISTlab , PINT30 d and PDIST30 d) and indicated that the participants were successfully recruited at days that differed in clinical pain severity. Despite a significant intra-individual difference in clinical pain between days , the area of secondary hyperalgesia did not differ between weak-and strong-pain days ( 50.3 ± 13.5 cm2 vs. 51.2 ± 12.6 cm2). Testing the inter-individual association between clinical pain and secondary hyperalgesia , we found a positive correlation between PINTlab and secondary hyperalgesia on the weak-pain day ( rho = 0.6) , but not on the strong-pain day ( rho = 0.1). Given the stable secondary hyperalgesia across weak-and strong-pain days , this implies that subjects with a small secondary hyperalgesic area exhibited a relatively large variation in clinical pain between days , whereas subjects with a large secondary hyperalgesic area exhibited relatively small variation in clinical pain. Conclusions When subjects are observed across days , ` central sensitization ' , measured as the area of secondary hyperalgesia after a first-degree burn , does not seem to be important for clinical pain intensity per se , but may be important for clinical pain variation. Subjects with indication of low ` central sensitization ' seem to exhibit larger variation in pain between `` good '' and `` bad '' days than subjects with indication of high ` central sensitization '. The study indicates that ` central sensitization ' does not explain intra-individual variations in clinical pain. Implications This study raises the question of the role of ` central sensitization ' in clinical musculoskeletal pain disorders. Furthermore , a precise definition of the ` central sensitization ' concept is called for.