  Guided de-escalation of P2Y12-inhibitor treatment was recently identified as an effective alternative treatment strategy in acute coronary syndrome<disease> ( ACS) patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Safety and efficacy of this strategy may differ in relation to patient 's age. This pre-specified analysis of the TROPICAL-ACS trial aimed to assess the impact of age on clinical outcomes following guided de-escalation of antiplatelet treatment in ACS patients. Patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1 fashion to either standard treatment with prasugrel for 12 months ( control group) or to a guided de-escalation regimen ( 1 week prasugrel followed by 1 week clopidogrel and platelet function testing guided maintenance therapy with clopidogrel or prasugrel from day 14 after hospital discharge; guided de-escalation group). We used Cox regression models to assess the associations of age on clinical endpoints and interactions. In younger patients ( age ≤ 70 , n = 2240) , the 1 year incidence of the primary endpoint ( cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction , stroke , or bleeding ≥ grade 2 according to Bleeding Academic Research Consortium criteria) was significantly lower in guided de-escalation vs. control group ( 5.9 % vs. 8.3 %; hazard ratio ( HR) 0.70 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI) 0.51-0.96; P = 0.03 , number needed to treat = 42). In elderly patients ( age > 70 , n = 370) , the absolute risk of events was higher without significant differences between guided de-escalation vs. control group ( 15.5 % vs. 13.6 %; HR 1.17 , 95 % CI 0.69-2.01; P = 0.56). When the impact of age , as a continuous variable , was analysed on outcomes after guided de-escalation vs. control treatment , an increasing relative risk reduction was observed in the primary endpoint by decreasing age ( Pint = 0.02) , due to significant reductions in bleeding. Treatment effects of guided de-escalation for P2Y12 inhibitors depend on patient 's age with younger patients deriving a significant net clinical benefit. Although the safety and efficacy of guided de-escalation in the elderly was similar to uniform prasugrel therapy , this should be further investigated due to the limited sample size of this group.