  This study was designed to evaluate umbilical cord ischaemia-modified albumin ( IMA) levels and the cord blood gas parameters of foetuses with or without nuchal cords<disease> , at the time of elective C-section. The cross-sectional study population consisted of the patients who were admitted to the Tertiary Care Center between February and June 2015. Women with uncomplicated single term gestations between 37 and 40 completed weeks and scheduled for elective C-sections were included in the study. Fifty cases with a nuchal cord and 50 cases without a nuchal cord were recruited. Nuchal cord blood gas analysis and the IMA levels were evaluated. The IMA levels in umbilical artery of foetuses both in the study and control groups were similar ( 0.714 ± 0.150 vs. 0.689 ± 0.107 ABSU , p = .340 , respectively). The umbilical artery pH values of the study group were significantly lower than that in the control group ( 7.31 ± 0.04 vs. 7.32 ± 0.03 , p = .042; respectively). The results of the current study indicate that the nuchal cord has an impact on the foetal cord blood gas parameters to some extent before the initiation of labour. Fortunately , this impact does not end up with foetal tissue ischaemia , as confirmed by the IMA levels. Impact statement What is already known on this subject? The impact of nuchal cord on perinatal outcomes has been the subject of research for many years. Although the accumulated data has pointed out some unfavourable perinatal effects , the heterogeneity of the study groups both including a vaginal delivery and C-section and the inability to adjust the interfering factors ended up with some controversies. This is why there is not much known about the effects of the nuchal cord in women who are not in the labour process. What do the results of this study add? The current study aimed to exclude the interfering effects such as the active stage of labour. In this study , elective caesarean sections were selected as the study population to evaluate the effects of the nuchal cord on cord blood gas parameters and the IMA values. pH analysis in cord blood is used to detect hypoxia and the IMA is a new ischaemia marker. The results revealed that the in utero nuchal cord is associated with a significantly higher pCO