  Despite a wide number of toxicological studies that describe benzo ( a) pyrene ( BaP) effects , the metabolic mechanisms that underlie these effects in fish are largely unknown. Of great concern is the presence of BaP in aquatic systems , especially those in close proximity to human activity leading to consumption of potentially contaminated foods. BaP is a known carcinogen and it has been reported to have adverse effects on the survival , development and reproduction of fish. The purpose of this study was to investigate if a low dose of BaP can alter genes and key metabolic pathways in the liver and testis in male adult tilapia , and whether these could be associated with biological endpoints disruption. We used both high-throughput RNA-Sequencing to assess whole genome gene expression following repeated intraperitoneal injections of 3 mg/kg of BaP ( every 6 days for 26 days) and morphometric endpoints as indicators of general health. Condition factor ( K) along with hepatosomatic and gonadosomatic indices ( morphometric parameters) were significantly lower in BaP-treated fish than in controls. BaP exposure induced important changes in the gene expression pattern in liver and testis as revealed by both Pathway and Gene Ontology ( GO) analyses. Alterations that were shared by both tissues included arachidonic acid metabolism , androgen receptor to prostate-specific antigen signaling , and insulin-associated effects on lipogenesis. The most salient liver-specific effects included: biological processes involved in detoxification , IL6-associated insulin resistance , mTOR hyperactivation , mitotic cytokinesis , spindle pole and microtubule binding. BaP effects that were confined to the testis included: immune system functions , inflammatory response , estrogen and androgen metabolic pathways. Taken together , gene expression and morphometric end point data indicate that the reproductive success of adult male tilapia could be compromised as a result of BaP exposure. These results constitute new insights on the mechanism of action of low dose BaP in a non-model organism ( tilapia).