  Dietary polyphenols from green tea have been shown to possess cardio-protective activities in different experimental models of heart diseases and age-related ventricular dysfunction. The present study was aimed at evaluating whether long term in vivo administration of green tea extracts ( GTE) , can exert positive effects on the normal heart , with focus on the underlying mechanisms. The study population consisted of 20 male adult Wistar rats. Ten animals were given 40 mL/day tap water solution of GTE ( concentration 0.3 %) for 4 weeks ( GTE group). The same volume of water was administered to the 10 remaining control rats ( CTRL). Then , in vivo and ex vivo measurements of cardiac function were performed in the same animal , at the organ ( hemodynamics) and cellular ( cardiomyocyte mechanical properties and intracellular calcium dynamics) levels. On cardiomyocytes and myocardial tissue samples collected from the same in vivo studied animals , we evaluated: ( 1) the intracellular content of ATP , ( 2) the endogenous mitochondrial respiration<symptom> , ( 3) the expression levels of the Sarcoplasmic Reticulum Ca2 +- dependent ATPase 2a ( SERCA2) , the Phospholamban ( PLB) and the phosphorylated form of PLB , the L-type Ca2 + channel , the Na +- Ca2 + exchanger , and the ryanodine receptor 2. GTE cardiomyocytes exhibited a hyperdynamic contractility compared with CTRL ( the rate of shortening and re-lengthening , the fraction of shortening , the amplitude of calcium transient , and the rate of cytosolic calcium removal were significantly increased). A faster isovolumic relaxation was also observed at the organ level. Consistent with functional data , we measured a significant increase in the intracellular ATP content supported by enhanced endogenous mitochondrial respiration<symptom> in GTE cardiomyocytes , as well as higher values of the ratios phosphorylated-PLB/PLB and SERCA2/PLB. Long-term in vivo administration of GTE improves cell mechanical properties and intracellular calcium dynamics in normal cardiomyocytes , by increasing energy availability and removing the inhibitory effect of PLB on SERCA2.