  Objective Patients with osteoarthritis ( OA) pain often have insufficient pain relief from non-opioid analgesics. The aim of this trial was to study efficacy and tolerability of a low dose 7-day buprenorphine transdermal delivery system , added to a NSAID or coxib regimen , in opioid-naïve patients with moderate to severe OA pain. Methods A 6 months randomised , double-blind , parallel-group study at 19 centres in Denmark , Finland , Norway , and Sweden , in which OA patients ( > 40 years) with at least moderate radiographic OA changes and at least moderate<symptom> pain<symptom> in a hip and/or knee while on a NSAID or a coxib were randomised to a 7-day buprenorphine patch ( n = 100) or an identical placebo patch ( n = 99). The initial patch delivered buprenorphine 5 μg/h. This was titrated to 10 or 20 μg/h , as needed. Rescue analgesic was paracetamol 0.5-4 g daily. Statistical analysis of outcome data was mainly with a general linear model , with treatment as factor , the primary joint of osteoarthritis , baseline scores , and season as covariates. Results Most patients had OA-radiographic grade II ( moderate) or grade III ( severe) , only 8 in each group had very severe OA ( grade IV). The median buprenorphine dose was 10 μg/h. 31 buprenorphine-treated patients and 2 placebo-treated patients withdrew because of side effects. Lack of effect caused 12 placebo-treated and 7 buprenorphine-treated patients to withdraw. The differences in effects between treatments: Daytime pain on movement , recorded every evening on a 0-10 numeric rating scale decreased significantly more ( P = 0.029) in the buprenorphine group. Patients ' Global Impression of Change at the end of the double blind period was significantly improved in the buprenorphine group ( P = 0.017). The chosen primary effect outcome measure , the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities ( WOMAC) OA Index for Pain ( P = 0.061) , and secondary outcome measures , the WOMAC OA score for functional abilities ( P = 0.055) , and the WOMAC total score ( P = 0.059) indicated more effects from buprenorphine than placebo , but these differences were not statistically significant. In a post-hoc , subgroup analysis with the 16 patients with radiographic grad IV ( very severe) excluded , WOMAC OA Index for Pain was significantly ( P = 0.039) reduced by buprenorphine , compared with placebo. WOMAC OA score for stiffness and the amount of rescue medication taken did not differ. Sleep disturbance , quality of sleep , and quality of life improved in both groups. Side effects: Typical opioid side effects caused withdrawal at a median of 11 days before completing the 168 days double blind trial in 1/3 of the buprenorphine group. Mostly mild local skin reactions occurred equally often ( 1/3) in both groups. Conclusions Although the 24 hours WOMAC OsteoArthritis Index of pain was not statistically significantly superior to placebo , day-time movement-related pain and patients ' global impression of improvement at the end of the 6-months double blind treatment period were significantly better in patients treated with buprenorphine compared with placebo. Opioid side effects caused 1/3 of the buprenorphine-patients to withdraw before the end of the 6-months double blind study period. Implications A low dose 7-days buprenorphine patch at 5-20 μg/h is a possible means of pain relief in about 2/3 of elderly osteoarthritis patients , in whom pain is opioid-sensitive , surgery is not possible , NSAIDs and coxibs are not recommended , and paracetamol in tolerable doses is not effective enough. Vigilant focus on and management of opioid side effects are essential.