  Background and aim Pain due to a usually non-painful mechanical stimulus , mechanical allodynia , is an oppressive symptom in subgroups of patients with neuropathic pain. Dynamic mechanical allodynia ( DMA) is evoked by a normally innocuous light moving mechanical stimulus on the skin and static mechanical allodynia ( SMA) by a sustained , normally innocuous pressure against the skin. DMA is claimed to be mediated by myelinated fibres and SMA by C-fibres. Also A-delta fibres have been implicated in the static subtype. A low intensity vertically applied stimulus of 1 second ( s) is expected to activate predominantly rapidly adapting A-beta mechanoreceptors thus recruiting the same peripheral substrate as a horizontally moving brush on top of the skin. In patients with SMA we assumed an activation of Cbut also A-delta fibres from a static 10 s von Frey filament stimulus. The aim was to investigate if DMA and SMA could be assessed at perception threshold level using short or longer lasting usually non-painful von Frey filament prodding of the neuropathic skin. Patients and methods Eighteen patients with painful unilateral partial peripheral traumatic nerve injury suffering from SMA ( n = 9) and/or DMA ( n = 18) in a limb were studied. A compression/ischemia-induced ( differential) nerve block in conjunction with repeated quantitative sensory testing of A-delta and C-fibre function using cold and warm stimuli was used to assess which nerve fibre population that contributes to pain at perception threshold level using 1 s ( vF1) and 10 s ( vF10) von Frey filament stimulation of the skin. Results The main outcome was the finding that elevation of vF1 and vF10 occurred simultaneously and significantly prior to an increase in the perception level to cold or warmth during the continuous nerve block. Single patients demonstrated a slight decrease in cold perception levels at the time of elevation of vF1 or vF10 and a possible contribution to mechanical allodynia from A-delta-fibres can therefore not completely be ruled out although the recorded alterations were minor. None of the patients reported an elevation of the perception level to warmth at the time of elevation of vF1 or vF10 excluding contribution from C-fibres. Further , only patients with clinically established SMA ( n = 9) reported continuous<symptom> pain<symptom> to a sustained 10 s von Frey filament stimulation ( vF10). Patients with only DMA ( n = 9) reported pain merely for the initial 1-3 s of the total stimulus duration of 10 s and for a few seconds after the filament was lifted from the skin. Conclusions These findings support the role of A-beta fibres as peripheral mediators of both vF1 and vF10 although different receptor organs may be involved , i.e. , rapidly ( RA) and slowly ( SA-I) adapting mechanoreceptors. Implications Techniques to quantify the different allodynias at perception threshold level deserve further attention as possible adjuncts to suprathreshold stimuli in intervention studies aimed at modifying these stimulus-evoked phenomena.