  Wastewater irrigation is a common livelihood practice in many parts of the developing world. With the continuous irrigation supply , groundwater systems in these regions perceive adverse impacts due to inadequate infrastructure to treat the wastewater. The current study area , Musi River irrigation system , is one such case study located in the peri-urban Hyderabad of South India. The Musi River water , which is used for irrigation , is composed of untreated and secondary treated wastewater from Hyderabad city. Kachiwani Singaram micro-watershed in the peri-urban Hyderabad is practicing wastewater irrigation for the last 40 years. The current quality of ( untreated) wastewater used for irrigation is expected to have adverse impacts on the local aquifers , but detailed investigations are lacking. To elucidate the groundwater quality dynamics and seasonality of the wastewater irrigation impacts on the peri-urban agricultural system , we analyzed the groundwater quality on a monthly basis for one hydrological year in the wastewater and groundwater irrigated areas , which exist next to each other. The spatio-temporal variability of groundwater quality in the watershed was analyzed with respect to wastewater irrigation and seasonality using multivariate statistical analysis , multi-way modeling and self-organizing maps. This study indicates the significance of combining various statistical techniques for detailed evaluation of the groundwater processes in a wastewater irrigated agricultural system. The results suggest that concentrations of the major ionic substances increase after the monsoon season , especially in wastewater irrigated areas. Multi-way modeling identified the major polluted groundwaters to come from the wastewater irrigated parts of the watershed. Clusters of chemical variables identified by using self-organizing maps indicate that groundwater pollution is highly impacted by mineral interactions and long-term wastewater irrigation. The study recommends regular monitoring of water resources and development of sustainable management strategies to mitigate the aquifer pollution in wastewater irrigation systems.