  Over the past decade , consumer demand for gluten-free products has increased , but little is known about the public health impact of and factors correlated with valuing gluten-free food. Describe the sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics of young adults valuing gluten-free as an important food attribute , and compare their dietary intake with other young adults. Cross-sectional analysis of survey data collected in 2015 to 2016 as part of the fourth wave of the Project EAT ( Eating and Activity in Teens and Young Adults) cohort study. Population-based sample of 1,819 young adults ( 25 to 36 years) ( 57 % women , 69 % white) , initially recruited in Minneapolis-St Paul , MN , public middle and senior high schools. Valuing gluten-free food , weight goals and weight control behaviors , food production values , eating behaviors , physical activity , and dietary intake. Logistic regression models were used to investigate associations with potential correlates of valuing gluten-free food. For dietary intake , adjusted mean estimates were calculated for those who did and those who did not value gluten-free foods. Approximately 13 % of young adults valued gluten-free food , a characteristic most strongly related to valuing food production practices ( eg , organic , locally grown); factors such as Nutrition Facts use and having a weight goal were also related to gluten-free food values. Valuing gluten-free food was related to engagement in both healthy behaviors ( eg , eating breakfast daily , eating more fruits and vegetables) and unhealthy behaviors ( eg , using diet pills to control weight). Young adults valuing gluten-free food generally engaged in healthier behaviors and had better dietary intake; of concern , they were also more likely to engage in unhealthy weight control behaviors. Valuing gluten-free food may be part of a cluster of behaviors representing an interest in making healthier food choices but may also be a marker for unhealthy weight preoccupation and behaviors.