  It is well established that inflammation<symptom> leads to the creation of potent DNA damaging chemicals , including reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. Nitric oxide can react with glutathione to create S-nitrosoglutathione ( GSNO) , which can in turn lead to S-nitrosated proteins. Of particular interest is the impact of GSNO on the function of DNA repair enzymes. The base excision repair ( BER) pathway can be initiated by the alkyl-adenine DNA glycosylase ( AAG) , a monofunctional glycosylase that removes methylated bases. After base removal , an abasic site is formed , which then gets cleaved by AP endonuclease and processed by downstream BER enzymes. Interestingly , using the Fluorescence-based Multiplexed Host Cell Reactivation Assay ( FM-HCR) , we show that GSNO actually enhances AAG activity , which is consistent with the literature. This raised the possibility that there might be imbalanced BER when cells are challenged with a methylating agent. To further explore this possibility , we confirmed that GSNO can cause AP endonuclease to translocate from the nucleus to the cytoplasm , which might further exacerbate imbalanced BER by increasing the levels of AP sites. Analysis of abasic sites indeed shows GSNO induces an increase in the level of AP sites. Furthermore , analysis of DNA damage using the CometChip ( a higher throughput version of the comet assay) shows an increase in the levels of BER intermediates. Finally , we found that GSNO exposure is associated with an increase in methylation-induced cytotoxicity. Taken together , these studies support a model wherein GSNO increases BER initiation while processing of AP sites is decreased , leading to a toxic increase in BER intermediates. This model is also supported by additional studies performed in our laboratory showing that inflammation<symptom> in vivo leads to increased large-scale sequence rearrangements. Taken together , this work provides new evidence that inflammatory chemicals can drive cytotoxicity and mutagenesis via BER imbalance.