  Selected patients with intractable focal epilepsy who have failed a previous epilepsy surgery can become seizure-free with reoperation. Preoperative evaluation is exceedingly challenging in this cohort. We aim to investigate the diagnostic value of two noninvasive approaches , magnetoencephalography ( MEG) and ictal single-photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT) , in patients with failed epilepsy surgery. We retrospectively included a consecutive cohort of patients who failed prior resective epilepsy surgery , underwent re-evaluation including MEG and ictal SPECT , and had another surgery after the re-evaluation. The relationship between resection and localization from each test was determined , and their association with seizure<symptom> outcomes was analyzed. A total of 46 patients were included; 21 ( 46 %) were seizure-free at 1-year followup after reoperation. Twenty-seven ( 58 %) had a positive MEG and 31 ( 67 %) had a positive ictal SPECT. The resection of MEG foci was significantly associated with seizure-free outcome ( p = 0.002). Overlap of ictal SPECT hyperperfusion zones with resection was significantly associated with seizure-free outcome in the subgroup of patients with injection time ≤ 20 seconds ( p = 0.03) , but did not show significant association in the overall cohort ( p = 0.46) although all injections were ictal. Patients whose MEG and ictal SPECT were concordant on a sublobar level had a significantly higher chance of seizure<symptom> freedom ( p = 0.05). MEG alone achieved successful localization in patients with failed epilepsy surgery with a statistical significance. Only ictal SPECT with early injection ( ≤ 20 seconds) had good localization value. Sublobar concordance between both tests was significantly associated with seizure<symptom> freedom. SPECT can provide essential information in MEG-negative cases and vice versa. Our results emphasize the importance of considering a multimodal presurgical evaluation including MEG and SPECT in all patients with a previous failed epilepsy surgery.