  Cognitive errors are a major contributor to medical error. Traditionally , medical errors at teaching hospitals are analyzed in morbidity and mortality ( M&M) conferences. We aimed to describe the frequency of cognitive errors in relation to the occurrence of diagnostic and other error types , in cases presented at an emergency medicine ( EM) resident M&M conference. We conducted a retrospective study of all cases presented at a suburban US EM residency monthly M&M conference from September 2011 to August 2016. Each case was reviewed using the electronic medical record ( EMR) and notes from the M&M case by two EM physicians. Each case was categorized by type of primary medical error that occurred as described by Okafor et al.. When a diagnostic error occurred , the case was reviewed for contributing cognitive and non-cognitive factors. Finally , when a cognitive error occurred , the case was classified into faulty knowledge , faulty data gathering or faulty synthesis , as described by Graber et al.. Disagreements in error type were mediated by a third EM physician. A total of 87 M&M cases were reviewed; the two reviewers agreed on 73 cases , and 14 cases required mediation by a third reviewer. Forty-eight cases involved diagnostic errors , 47 of which were cognitive errors. Of these 47 cases , 38 involved faulty synthesis , 22 involved faulty data gathering and only 11 involved faulty knowledge. Twenty cases contained more than one type of cognitive error. Twenty-nine cases involved both a resident and an attending physician , while 17 cases involved only an attending physician. Twenty-one percent of the resident cases involved all three cognitive errors , while none of the attending cases involved all three. Forty-one percent of the resident cases and only 6 % of the attending cases involved faulty knowledge. One hundred percent of the resident cases and 94 % of the attending cases involved faulty synthesis. Our review of 87 EM M&M cases revealed that cognitive errors are commonly involved in cases presented , and that these errors are less likely due to deficient knowledge and more likely due to faulty synthesis. M&M conferences may therefore provide an excellent forum to discuss cognitive errors and how to reduce their occurrence.