  We hypothesized that altered coronal balance<symptom> in adolescent scoliosis leads to asymmetric stress on the lower limbs , with subsequent effects on bone maturation and later morphology. We aimed to assess the correlation between the biomechanical parameters of the lower limbs and coronal balance<symptom> in idiopathic scoliosis. In this study , EOS images of 280 patients and 56 controls were randomly selected from our clinics ' database. The average age of AIS patients was 14.5 years and average Cobb angle 33.48 °. Three D reconstructions of the pelvis and lower limbs were performed and coronal balance<symptom> assessed. Reliability of measurements was ensured by intra- and inter-observer agreement. During statistical analysis the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test , t-test and linear regression analysis were performed. A p value < 0.05 was considered significant. Of the 15 examined lower limb parameters , a significant difference between sides was found in those with AIS for femur length , total length , collodiaphyseal angle , angle between the femoral mechanical and anatomical axis and tibial torsion. In addition , the tibial length and the mechanical tibiofemoral angle were significantly higher than those of the controls. The coronal balance<symptom> was found to be the strongest predictive factor showing a significant correlation with all of the previous parameters , except tibial torsion. With patients grouped based on coronal balance<symptom> ( compensated , right and left decompensated) the paired t-test also supported these findings. The biomechanical parameters of the lower limbs are affected in cases of scoliosis with an altered coronal balance<symptom>. It was thought that a shift in balance<symptom> in the coronal plane accounted for the small but significant changes seen in our study , with the lower limb on the side of decompensation becoming shorter in comparison to its ' counterpart , with a lower collodiaphyseal angle and increased varus at the knee joint. III , case-control study.