  Mechanical forces during machine milking induce changes in teat condition which can be differentiated into short-term and long-term changes. Machine milking-induced short-term changes in teat condition ( STC) are defined as tissue responses to a single milking and have been associated with the risk of new intramammary infection. Albeit , their association with teat characteristics , such as teat-end shape , has not been investigated by rigorous methods. The primary objective was to determine the association of STC , as measured by ultrasonography , with teat-end shape. The second objective was to describe possible differences in the recovery time of teat tissue after machine milking among teats with different teat-end shapes. Holstein cows ( n = 128) were enrolled in an observational study , housed in free-stall pens with sand bedding and milked three times a day. Ultrasonography of the left front and right hind teat was performed after teat preparation before milking ( t-1) , immediately after milking ( t 0) and 1 , 3 , 5 and 7 h after milking ( t 1 , t 3 , t 5 , t 7). The teat tissue parameters measured from ultrasound scans were teat canal length , teat-end diameter , teat-end diameter at the midpoint between the distal and proximal end of the teat canal , teat wall thickness , and teat cistern width. Teat-end shape was assessed visually and classified into three categories: pointed , flat and round. Multivariable linear regression analyses showed differences in the relative change of teat tissue parameters ( compared with t-1) at t 0 among teats with different teat-end shapes , with most parameters showing the largest change for round teats. The premilking values were reached ( recovery time) after 7 h in teats with a pointed teat-end shape , whereas recovery time was greater than 7 h in teats with flat and round teat-end shapes. Under the same liner and milking machine conditions , teats with a round teat-end shape had the most severe short-term changes. The results of this observational study indicated that teat-end shape may be one of the factors that contribute to the severity of STC.