  Hypothermic machine perfusion ( HMP) of deceased donor kidneys is associated with a better outcome than static cold storage , predominantly in marginal donors. Nevertheless , there is little evidence supporting whether graft centre of origin and donor category impact HMP results. To identify factors impacting HMP in transplantation from marginal donors. Analysis of prospectively collected cohort data of expanded criteria donor ( ECD) and donor after circulatory death ( DCD) categories II and III was performed. A total of 214 adult recipients of first kidney transplantation with complete data and a minimum of 6-mo follow-up were included. Delayed graft function ( DGF) was defined as the lack of decrease in creatinine level in the first 48h. Graft loss was defined as return to dialysis or creatinine clearance < 15ml/min/1 .73 m DGF occurred in 32.8 % of imported and 20.5 % of local grafts ( p = 0.059). Only donor category ( DCD; odds ratio ( OR): 6.6 , p = 0.008) and haemodialysis ( OR: 3.5 , p = 0.002) were significantly associated with DGF development. The 1-yr GS rate was 92.5 % in the local donor group and 84.3 % in the imported donor group ( p = 0.050). Multivariate analysis by Cox proportional hazards model identified only donor category ( hazard ratio ( HR) 10.99 , p = 0.001) and donor age ( HR 1.07 , p = 0.005) as predictive variables for GS. The small sample size of the DCD group diminished the statistical power and did not permit a subgroup analysis to determine the impact of specific DCD category on HMP results. DCD donor category , but not donor centre of origin , impacted DGF development and GS in the HMP of deceased donor kidneys. Currently , the number of donors is insufficient to meet the demand for renal grafts. Expanded criteria for donation after brain death and donation after circulatory death ( DCD) programmes have been developed as strategies to minimise this problem. Hypothermic machine perfusion has previously demonstrated its usefulness in expanded criteria donation and DCD preservation. DCD type and donor age increase the risk of graft loss.