  To ( a) assess the diagnostic performance of material decomposition ( MD) water ( iodine) images for the evaluation of cervical intervertebral discs ( IVDs) in patients who underwent dual-energy head and neck CT angiography ( HNCTA) compared with 70-keV images and ( b) to explore the correlation of water concentration with the T2 relaxation time of IVDs. Twenty-four consecutive patients who underwent dual-energy HNCTA and cervical spine MRI were studied. The diagnostic performance of water ( iodine) , 70-keV and MR images for IVD bulge and herniation was assessed. A subjective image score for each image set was recorded. The signal-to-noise ratio ( SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio ( CNR) of IVDs to the cervical spinal cord were compared between water ( iodine) and 70-keV images. Disc water concentration as measured on water ( iodine) images was correlated with T2 relaxation time. IVD evaluations for bulge and herniation did not differ significantly among the three image sets ( pairwise comparisons; all p > 0.05). SNR and CNR were significantly improved on water ( iodine) images compared with those on 70-keV images ( p < 0.001). Although water ( iodine) images showed higher image quality scores when evaluating IVDs compared with 70-keV images , the difference is not significant ( all adjusted p > 0.05). IVD water concentration exhibited no correlation with relative T2 relaxation time ( all p > 0.05). Water ( iodine) images facilitated analysis of cervical IVDs by providing higher SNR and CNR compared with 70-keV images. The disc water concentration measured on water ( iodine) images exhibited no correlation with relative T2 relaxation time. • There was no significant difference in cervical IVD evaluations for bulge and herniation among water ( iodine) images , 70-keV images and MR images. • Water ( iodine) images provided higher objective and subjective image quality than 70-keV images , though the difference of subjective evaluation was not statistically significant. • The disc water concentration exhibited no correlation with relative T2 relaxation time , which reflects the inferiority of the water ( iodine) images in evaluating disc water content compared with T2 maps.