  Self-care activities are the cornerstone of diabetes care that ensures patients participation to achieve optimal glycemic control and to prevent complications. The aim of this study is to find the level of self-care activities among diabetics aged ≥ 20 years residing in a resettlement colony in East Delhi and its association with sociodemographic factors , disease , and treatment profile. Using cross-sectional survey , 168 known diabetic patients were selected from Nand Nagri , a resettlement colony in East Delhi. Data were collected using Hindi translation of revised version-Summary of Diabetic Self Care Activities along with a pretested semi-open-ended questionnaire. Self-care was assessed on six parameters as follows: ( a) general diet , ( b) specific diet , ( c) exercise , ( d) blood sugar testing , ( e) foot-care , and ( f) smoking. The study period was from November 2014 to April 2016. Nearly 35.1 % of respondents belonged to 60-69 years age group. About 52.4 % of respondents were female. Fifty-two diabetics ( 31 %) reported having practised diet control on all 7 days in the past 1 week. Nearly 39.3 % of patients did not perform any physical activity. The blood test was not practised by 92.3 % of respondents. Foot-care was practised by only 19 % of patients. There was a significant association between general diet among diabetics with family support ( P = 0.020) , place of diagnosis ( P = 0.033) , and treatment funds ( P = 0.017). The exercise score among diabetics who were below the poverty line was higher than those above poverty line ( P = 0.029). Younger age ( P = 0.005) and treatment with insulin ( P = 0.008) were positively associated with blood glucose testing. The foot-care practice was better in patients aware of complications and foot-care practices ( P < 0.001). Self-care activities among diabetic patients were very poor. Self-management educational programs at hospitals along with information , education , and communication activities at the community level and one-to-one counseling are recommended.