  There are limited data to inform positioning of agents for treating moderate-severe Crohn 's disease ( CD). We assessed comparative efficacy and safety of first-line ( biologic-naïve) and second-line ( prior exposure to anti-tumour necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF)- α) agents) biologic therapy for moderate-severe CD , through a systematic review and network meta-analysis , and appraised quality of evidence ( QoE) using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development and Evaluation ( GRADE) approach. We identified randomised controlled trials ( RCTs) in adults with moderate-severe CD treated with approved anti-TNF agents , anti-integrin agents and anti-IL12/ 23 agents , first-line or second-line , and compared with placebo or another active agent. Efficacy outcomes were induction and maintenance of clinical remission; safety outcomes were serious adverse events and infections. Network meta-analyses were performed , and ranking was assessed using surface under the cumulative ranking ( SUCRA) probabilities. No head-to-head trials were identified. In biologic-naïve patients , infliximab ( SUCRA ,0.93) and adalimumab ( SUCRA ,0.75) were ranked highest for induction of clinical remission ( moderate QoE). In patients with prior anti-TNF exposure , adalimumab ( SUCRA , 0.91; low QoE , in patients with prior response or intolerance to anti-TNF agents) and ustekinumab ( SUCRA , 0.71) were ranked highest for induction of clinical remission. In patients with response to induction therapy , adalimumab ( SUCRA , 0.97) and infliximab ( SUCRA , 0.68) were ranked highest for maintenance of remission. Ustekinumab had lowest risk of serious adverse events ( SUCRA , 0.72) and infection ( SUCRA , 0.71; along with infliximab , SUCRA , 0.83) in maintenance trials. Indirect comparisons suggest that infliximab or adalimumab may be preferred first-line agents , and ustekinumab a preferred second-line agent , for induction of remission in patients with moderate-severe CD. Head-to-head trials are warranted.