  There are fundamental differences between e-cigarettes and conventional cigarette product categories with regards to potential environmental exposures , notably that e-cigarettes do not contain tobacco or generate side-stream emissions. Here we assess the spatial and temporal patterns of exhaled e-cigarette aerosol at a bystander 's position , and compare it with conventional cigarette smoke emissions. Smokers were asked to use e-cigarettes or smoke conventional cigarettes in a room-simulating chamber. Volunteers used the products at different distances from a heated mannequin , representing a bystander , and under different room ventilation rates. Aerosol particle concentrations and size distributions at the bystander 's position were measured. For both product categories , the particle concentrations registered following each puff were in the same order of magnitude. However , for e-cigarettes the particle concentration returned rapidly to background values within seconds; for conventional cigarettes it increased with successive puffs , returning to background levels after 30-45 minutes. Unlike for the e-cigarette devices tested , such temporal variation was dependent upon the room ventilation rate. Particle size measurements showed that exhaled e-cigarette particles were smaller than those emitted during smoking conventional cigarettes and evaporated almost immediately after exhalation; thus affecting the removal of particles through evaporation rather than displacement by ventilation. Significant differences between emissions from the tested electronic and conventional cigarettes are reported. Exhaled e-cigarette particles are liquid droplets evaporating rapidly; conventional cigarette smoke particles are far more stable and linger. Provide a brief description about what the study adds ( 50-100 words). Several factors potentially influencing particle behaviour after exhalation of e-cigarette aerosols or emitted during smoking conventional cigarettes were studied; Differences in particle size between those exhaled following use of e-cigarettes and those emitted during smoking of conventional cigarettes were observed; E-cigarette particle concentrations decreased rapidly following exhalation due to evaporation; The removal of particles following smoking conventional cigarettes was much slower and was dependent upon the room ventilation rate.