  Hemoglobin ( Hb) molecule consists of α2β2 dimers arranged in fashion having pseudo-222 symmetry. The subunits are composed of the specific functional prosthetic group `` heme '' and a protein moiety `` globin ''. Bird Hbs are functionally similar to mammalian Hbs and regulated by inositol pentaphosphate ( IPP) but they are structurally dissimilar with mammalian Hbs in adaptation to vital environment such as high altitudes , high speed flights and oxygen affinity. The insufficient structural studies on avian Hbs limit us to understand their degree of adaptation to such critical environments. So far , detailed structural studies of bar-headed goose ( BHG) and graylag goose ( GLG) Hb structures were reported to expose their remarkable difference in molecular level adaptation. The striking contrasts to its close relative the bar headed goose , which lives at high altitude and capable of tolerating severe hypoxic environment is mainly due its structural features. The Great<pathogen> Cormorant ( GCT) can fly and swim , the dual characteristic of GCT leads to study the details of adaptation of high oxygen affinity in avian species and to know about the role of amino acid substitutions at α1β1 interface , the crystal structure of Great cormorant is studied. The structure of GCT Hb has been solved at 3.5 Å resolution and it is compared with the other high oxygen affinity Hb ( graylag goose ( GLG) , bar headed goose ( BHG) and human ( HMN) hemoglobin) structures. To determine the crystal structure of Great<pathogen> Cormorant ( GCT) Hemoglobin and to compare its three dimensional structure with other high and low oxygen affinity hemoglobin species to understand its characteristic features of high oxygen affinity. The GCT hemoglobin has been purified , crystallized and data sets were processed using iMosflm. The integrated data has been solved using Molecular replacement method using Graylag hemoglobin ( 1FAW) as the template. The structure refinement has been carried out using Refmac which reduced the Rwork and Rfree to 23 % and 27 % respectively. The structure has been deposited in Protein Data Bank with PDB code: 3WR1. The Great<pathogen> cormorant hemoglobin consists of 287 amino acids , two heme and one water molecule located in alpha heme site. The structure has been crystallized in a tetragonal system having half a molecule in the assymetric unit. In order to characterize the tertiary and quaternary structural differences , the structure of cormorant hemoglobin is compared with GLG , BHG and human Hb. The larger variation observed between GCT and human Hb indicates that GCT Hb differs remarkably from human. The α1β1 interface of Great cormorant Hb is similar to bar-headed goose Hb with few amino acid substitutions. It has been found that the interaction which is common among avian hemoglobins ( α119 Pro- β55Leu) is altered by Ala 119 in GCT. This intra-dimer contact ( α119 Pro- β 55 Leu) disruption leads to high oxygen affinity in BGH Hb. In cormorant , GLG and human the proline is unchanged but interestingly , in cormorant Hb , the β55 position was found to be Thr instead of Leu. Similar kind of substitutions ( β 55 Leu- Ser) observed in Andean goose Hb structure leads to elevated oxygen affinity between Hb-O2. To our surprise , such type of substitution at β 55 ( Thr) in cormorant Hb confirms that it is comparable with Andean goose Hb structure. Thus the sequence , structural differences at alpha , beta heme pocket and interface contacts confirms that GCT adopts high oxygen affinity conformation. The three dimensional structure of Great cormorant hemoglobin has been investigated to understand its unique structural features to adopt during hypoxia condition. The comparative studies of GCT 's α , β heme pockets and the subunit interface with other Hbs reveal its similarities with goose Hbs. Also the loss of α119- β55 contact in GCT and its unique mutation ( Leu β55 Thr) as in goose Hbs may play an important role in oxygen affinity. Thus by comparing the sequence and overall structural similarities with high and low oxygen affinity species , it appears that GCT has more possibilities to subsist with low oxygen demand.