  Dental implants have been an important option for the replacement of missing teeth. A major clinical challenge is how best to accelerate bone regeneration and reduce the healing time for functional restoration after implant placement. Monoclonal antibody against sclerostin ( Scl-Ab) has been shown to enhance alveolar bone formation and fracture repair. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of systemic administration of Scl-Ab on dental implant osseointegration and bone regeneration in an experimental alveolar ridge tooth extraction model. To investigate the effects of Scl-Ab on bone regeneration and dental implant osseointegration , an experimental alveolar bone osteotomy rat model was adopted. One month after the extraction of maxillary right first molars , osteotomy defects were created at the coronal aspect of each of the extraction sites , and 1x2 mm custom titanium implants were pressed-fitted into the osteotomies. Coincident with initial implant placement , Scl-Ab or vehicle was administered subcutaneously twice weekly at a dose of 25 mg/kg for 10-28 days and compared to a vehicle control. Rats were sacrificed 10 , 14 and 28d after surgery , and maxillae were harvested and analyzed by micro-computed tomography ( microCT) , histology and histomorphometry. MicroCT analysis demonstrated that maxillary bone volume fraction was approximately 2 to 2.5-fold greater in Scl-Ab treated animals as compared to vehicle alone at days 14 and 28. Consistent with those findings , 2-D bone fill percentage within the coronal osteotomy sites were highest in Scl-Ab treatment groups at 28d. In addition , bone-implant contact at 28d was approximately 2-fold greater in the Scl-Ab group compared to vehicle controls. These results indicate that systemic Scl-Ab administration enhances osseointegration and bone regeneration around dental implants. This approach offers potential as a treatment modality for patients with low bone mass or bone defects to achieve more predictable bone regeneration at alveolar bone defects , and to enhance dental implant osseointegration.