  Understanding how biodiversity loss influences plant litter decomposition-that is , the biologically mediated conversion of coarse to fine particulate organic matter-is crucial to predict changes in the functioning of many stream ecosystems , where detrital food webs are dominant. Rates of litter decomposition are influenced by detritivore diversity , but the mechanisms behind this relationship are uncertain. As differences in detritivore body size are a major determinant of interspecific interactions , they should be key for predicting effects of detritivore diversity on decomposition. To explore this question , we manipulated detritivore diversity and body size simultaneously in a microcosm experiment using two small ( Leuctra geniculata<pathogen> and Lepidostoma hirtum) and two large detritivore species ( Sericostoma pyrenaicum and Echinogammarus berilloni) in all possible 1- , 2- and 4-species combinations , and litter discs of Alnus glutinosa. We expected that larger species would facilitate smaller species through the production of smaller litter fragments , resulting in faster decomposition and greater growth of smaller species in polycultures containing species of different body size. To examine this hypothesis , we used a set of `` diversity-interaction '' models that explored how decomposition was affected by different interspecific interactions and the role of body size , and quantified the magnitude of such effect through ratios of decomposition rates and detritivore growth between polycultures and monocultures. We found a clear positive effect of detritivore diversity on decomposition , which was mainly explained by facilitation and niche partitioning. Facilitation of small animals by larger ones was evidenced by a 12 % increase in decomposition rates in polycultures compared to monocultures and the higher growth ( 20 %) of small species , which partly fed on fine particulate organic matter produced by larger animals. When the large species were together in polycultures , decomposition was enhanced by 19 % , but there were no changes in growth; niche partitioning was a plausible mechanism behind the increase in decomposition rates , as both species fed on different parts of litter discs , only one species being able to eat less palatable parts. Our study demonstrates that interspecific differences in body size should be taken into account in diversity-decomposition studies. Future studies should also consider differences in species ' vulnerability to extinction depending on body size and how this might affect ecosystem functioning in different scenarios of detritivore diversity and more complex food webs.