  Life roles are integral to occupational therapy practice. Goal setting is a method of establishing priorities to measure outcomes. While acquired brain injury can impact a person 's ability to fulfil meaningful life roles , the alignment of goals set in rehabilitation to life roles , is unclear. This study aimed to ( i) explore the alignment of goals with life roles for people with an acquired brain injury participating in inpatient rehabilitation; and ( ii) identify barriers and enablers to life role discussions within a patient-directed goal setting framework. A mixed-methods study was conducted on an inpatient rehabilitation unit in Victoria , Australia. Quantitative data were obtained from a retrospective file audit of randomly selected medical records. Qualitative data were collected through: a) interviews with patients and their families; and b) A focus group with occupational therapists. Thematic analysis of both audit data and narrative data was undertaken. Thirty files were examined and demonstrated 33 % alignment between goals and life roles. Four interviews were completed with patients , with a family member participating in two of these. Themes identified were: readiness , role concept , recovery concept and goal review. Five therapists attended the focus group. Themes identified were: Patient factors , goal review , expectations , role change and environment. Interview and focus group data identified that barriers to life role discussions included: lack of patient and family readiness , patients ' difficulty understanding role concept , focus on impairments and lack of family/ significant others support. Enablers included: having early conversations involving family , regular goal review and use of standardised tools. Goal setting in alignment with life roles is important in acquired brain injury rehabilitation , but may be limited. This process can be enhanced by including patients and their significant others in early goal setting conversations , along with regular goal review across the rehabilitation process.