  Olfactometry is globally acknowledged as a technique to determine odor concentrations , which are used to characterize odors for regulatory purposes , e.g. , to protect the general public against harmful effects of air pollution. Although the determination procedure for odor concentrations is standardized in some countries , continued research is required to understand uncertainties of odor monitoring and prediction. In this respect , the present paper strives to provide answers of paramount importance in olfactometry. To do so , a wealth of measurement data originating from six large-scale olfactometric stack emission proficiency tests conducted from 2015 to 2017 was retrospectively analyzed. The tests were hosted at a unique emission simulation apparatus-a replica of an industry chimney with 23 m in height-so that for the first time , conventional proficiency testing ( no sampling) with real measurements ( no reference concentrations) was combined. Surprisingly , highly variable recovery rates of the odorants were observed-no matter , which of the very different odorants was analyzed. Extended measurement uncertainties with roughly 30-300 % up to 20-520 % around a single olfactometric measurement value were calculated , which are way beyond the 95 % confidence interval given by the widely used standard EN 13725 ( 45-220 %) for assessment and control of odor emissions. Also , no evidence has been found that mixtures of odorants could be determined more precisely than single-component odorants. This is an important argument in the intensely discussed topic , whether n-butanol as current reference substance in olfactometry should be replaced by multi-component odorants. However , based on our data , resorting to an alternative reference substance will not solve the inherent problem of high uncertainty levels in dynamic olfactometry. Finally , robust statistics allowed to calculate reliable odor thresholds , which are an important prerequisite to convert mass concentrations to odor concentrations and vice versa.