  Illegal parking in emergency lanes ( paved highway shoulders) is becoming a serious road safety issue in China. The aim of this study was: 1) to examine the utility of the theory of planned behavior ( TPB) extended with descriptive norm , past behavior , facilitating and deterring circumstances , sensation seeking and invulnerability in predicting Chinese drivers ' intentions in illegal emergency lane parking; 2) to investigate whether respondents ' demographic characteristics would impact their views towards the behavior and predictive patterns of intentions; 3) to identify significant predictors of intentions. In this cross-sectional study , eligible respondents were all qualified Chinese drivers. A self-administered questionnaire was employed to collect data including demographic information , descriptive norm , past behavior , facilitating and deterring circumstances , sensation seeking and scenario-based invulnerability combined with TPB constructs. Descriptive statistics , MANOVAs and a series of hierarchical multiple linear regression analyses were conducted in SPSS. A total of 435 qualified drivers ( 234 males and 201 females) with a mean age of 35.2 years ( S.D. = 10.3) were included in analysis. The descriptive analysis showed that most participants reported weak intentions ( M = 2.35) to park illegally in emergency lanes with negative attitude ( M = 3.19) , low perceived support ( M = 2.91) and high control ( M = 5.08) over the behavior. The model succeeded in explaining 64 % of the variance in intentions for the whole sample , and principal TPB components accounted for 21 % of variance in intentions after demographic variables were controlled. MANOVAs revealed that significant differences of respondents ' opinions towards illegal emergency lane parking were only found between better-educated drivers ( with college education background) and less-educated ones. Separate regression analyses revealed that predictive pattern of better-educated participants also differed significantly from that of less-educated ones. The study revealed that perceived behavioral control , past behavior , facilitating circumstance and invulnerability emerged as consistently significant predictors of Chinese drivers ' intentions to park illegally in emergency lanes. Findings of this study may have some practical implications in developing multi-faced interventions or education process for illegal emergency lane parking in China.