  To explore the value of micro surface coil combined with three-dimensional reversed fast imaging with steady-state precession and diffusion-weighted imaging ( 3D-PSIF-DWI) in displaying intraparotid facial nerves and parotid<symptom> ducts. In total 24 healthy volunteers with no parotid<symptom> disease underwent scanning of head and neck coil and 4-cm micro surface coil combined with 3D-PSIF-DWI prospectively. The obtained original images were processed through maximum intensity projection , multiplanar reconstruction , and curved planar reconstruction. The magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI) signal characteristics of intraparotid structure , the subjective score of image quality , the signal intensity ratio ( SIR) of facial nerve/parotid tissues ( SIRN) , and SIR of parotid<symptom> duct/parotid tissues ( SIRD) were calculated , and the displaying rates of the facial nerves and parotid<symptom> ducts were observed. The Wilcoxon matched-sample signed rank sum test was used to compare the scores of head and neck coil and micro surface coil 3D-PSIF-DWI sequence images; paired-t test was used to compare SIRN and SIRD of the 2 groups; χ test was used to compare the displaying rate of the facial nerves and parotid<symptom> ducts in the 2 groups. In total 24 volunteers successfully underwent MRI scan of parotid glands. On 3D-PSIF-DWI images , the parotid<symptom> gland showed slightly low signal intensity , muscle tissues showed intermediate intensity , while the vessels showed slightly high or equal intensity; the parotid<symptom> segment of facial nerves was displayed as a tortuous line-like high intensity , and the parotid<symptom> duct showed curved high intensity , lymph nodes showed kidney-shaped , oval , or spindle-shaped high intensity. The subjective scores for head and neck coil and small coil images were ( 2.2 ± 0.7) and ( 1.5 ± 0.3) respectively , with significant difference ( Z = -2.714 , P = 0.007) , and image quality of micro surface coils was better than that of head and neck coil. The SIRNs of head and neck coil and micro surface coil images were 1.6 ± 0.5 and 2.2 ± 1.1 respectively; the SIRDs were 2.0 ± 0.6 and 2.8 ± 1.4 respectively , which showed significant differences ( t = 3.440 , 3.639 respectively , P value was 0.001 , 0.001 respectively). All facial nerve trunks could be displayed by head and neck coils and micro surface coils. On head and neck coil images , 46 sides of temporofacial division , 47 sides of cervicofacial division , 21 sides of temporal branches , 22 sides of zygomatic branches , 29 sides of buccal branches , 30 sides of marginal mandibular branches , 32 sides of cervical branches , and 28 sides of the parotid<symptom> duct could be displayed. On micro coil images , 48 sides of temporofacial division , 48 sides of cervicofacial division , 37 sides of temporal branches , 39 sides of zygomatic branches , 42 sides of buccal branches , 35 sides of marginal mandibular branches , 46 sides of cervical branches , and 28 sides of the parotid<symptom> duct could be displayed. The display number of first branches of the intraparotid facial nerve by these 2 methods had no significant difference , the number of the secondary branches and parotid<symptom> duct had significant differences. Micro surface coil surpassed parotid MRI with 3D-PSIF-DWI sequence than neck coil , which can simultaneously clearly display the trunk and branches of the intraparotid facial nerves and parotid<symptom> ducts.