  Effective vessel enhancement in X-ray coronary angiogram ( XCA) is essential for diagnosis of coronary artery disease , yet challenged by complex background structures with varying intensities and motion patterns. As a typical layer separation method , robust principal component analysis ( RPCA) has been proposed to automatically improve the vessel visibility via sparse and low-rank decomposition. However , the attenuate motion of vessels in X-ray angiogram leads to unsatisfactory vessel enhancement performance of the decomposition framework. &#13; To address this problem , we propose a vesselness-constrained RPCA method ( VC-RPCA) where a vessel-like appearance prior is incorporated into the layer separation framework for accurate vessel enhancement. We first pre-compute a vessel-like appearance prior based on Frangi filter to highlight curvilinear structures. After removing large-scale background structures by morphological closing operation , we then integrate the pre-computed vessel-like appearance prior into a low-rank decomposition framework to separate fine vessel structures. In addition , we develop an adaptive regularization strategy that imposes structured-sparse constraint to solve scale issue and capture vessels without salient motion. &#13; The proposed method was validated on 13 clinical XCA sequences containing 777 images in total. Contrast-to-Noise Ratio ( CNR) , Dice coefficient and Area Under ROC curve ( AUC) were employed for quantitative evaluation of the performance of vessel enhancement. Experiments show that 1) The adaptive regularization strategy helps to obtain the complete coronary tree in the separated vessel layer; 2) Our low-rank decomposition framework is robust against false positive/negative responses of Frangi filter; and 3) The proposed VC-RPCA is computationally fast and outperforms other state-of-the-art RPCA methods for vessel enhancement in the full-contrast and low-contrast scenarios. The results demonstrate that the proposed VC-RPCA can accurately separate coronary arteries and prominently improve the vessel visibility in X-ray angiogram. & # 13.