  We examine self-experimentation ethics history and practice , related law , use scenarios in universities and industry , and attitudes. We show through analysis of the historical development of medical ethics and regulation , from Hippocrates through Good Clinical Practice that there are no ethical barriers to self-experimentation. When the self-experimenter is a true investigator , there is no other party to be protected from unethical behavior. We discuss the n-of-1 issue in self-experiments , and make suggestions for improving experiment design. We discuss real-world scenarios of self-experimentation: at universities , for independent single-subject investigators , investigator/employees at pharmaceutical firms , and non-scientist self-experimenters. Our survey of ethics committees regarding policy and review for self-experimenting investigators show that approximately 1/3rd of ethics committee respondents had a policy regarding self-experimentation , and 1/3rd did n't require ethical committee review of proposed experiments. There was no relationship between having a policy and asking for review. We also surveyed member attitudes to , and experiences of , self-experimentation among members of the National Academy of Sciences , the Royal Society , and the European Academy of Sciences. To our knowledge , this survey is the first breakdown of self-experiments into impact-relevant type classifications , and represents an advance in the field. Half of our scientist respondents performed self-experiments , and roughly 1/5th had conducted a serious self-experiments. Most responders thought self-experiments were valuable , however , biologics injections , radiation exposure and surgical implants had negative ratings greater than positive. We conclude that self-experimenters should not have attempts made to terminate them , bar them from use of facilities , nor be barred from using themselves or their tissues except in exceptional circumstances. Organizational uncertainty over the ethical and regulatory status of self-experimentation , and resulting fear of consequences is unjustified and may be blocking a route to human experiments that practicing scientists widely consider appropriate , and which historical precedent had shown is valuable.