  Currently there are limited options for physiatrists to further subspecialize in cancer rehabilitation. Since 2007 , few cancer rehabilitation fellowship programs have been started. There is currently absolutely no information about such training programs and their graduates. This study is the first to survey a small number of graduates from two cancer rehabilitation fellowship programs. The purpose of this study was to report characteristics , attitudes , and beliefs of cancer rehabilitation fellowship graduates. Graduates of cancer rehabilitation fellowship programs from 2008 through 2015 responded to a 26-question survey. Information collected included exposure to cancer rehabilitation prior to fellowship training , usefulness of fellowship training program , information about current practice , and suggested areas of improvement. The setting of the study is online survey. Participants were graduates of two cancer rehabilitation fellowship programs from 2008 through 2015. Participants were contacted via email about completion of an online survey and information was collected anonymously. Primary outcome measure was satisfaction of respondents with their fellowship training program in meeting the rehabilitation needs of their cancer patients. Sixteen responses , with a response rate of 89 % , were recorded. Sixty-three percent of the respondents had exposure to cancer rehabilitation prior to post-graduate year 3 ( PGY-3). Majority of graduates had practice involving at least 50 % of care to cancer patients. Fifty percent indicated that their position was specifically created after their job interview. Career development was one of the major areas of suggested improvement in training. Graduates of cancer rehabilitation fellowship programs strongly value their training. Majority of the graduates were able to continue their career into jobs that were primarily cancer rehabilitation related. Further work needs to be done to define this subspecialty further and incorporate building practice as part of this training.