  In previous studies we determined a gene expression signature in baboons for predicting the severity of hematological acute radiation syndrome<disease>. We subsequently validated a set of eight of these genes in leukemia<disease> patients undergoing total-body irradiation. In the current study , we addressed the effect of intra-individual variability on the basal level of expression of those eight radiation-responsive genes identified previously , by examining baseline levels in 200 unexposed healthy human donors ( 122 males and 88 females with an average age of 46 years) using real-time PCR. In addition to the eight candidate genes ( DAGLA , WNT3 , CD177 , PLA2G16 , WLS , POU2AF1 , STAT4 and PRF1) , we examined two more genes ( FDXR and DDB2) widely used in ex vivo whole blood experiments. Although significant sex- ( seven genes) and age-dependent ( two genes) differences in expression were found , the fold changes ranged only between 1.1-1.6. These were well within the twofold differences in gene expression generally considered to represent control values. Age and sex contributed less than 20-30 % to the complete inter-individual variance , which is calculated as the fold change between the lowest ( reference) and the highest Ct value minimum-maximum fold change ( min-max FC). Min-max FCs ranging between 10-17 were observed for most genes; however , for three genes , min-max FCs of complete inter-individual variance were found to be 37.1 ( WNT3) , 51.4 ( WLS) and 1,627.8 ( CD177). In addition , to determine whether discrimination between healthy and diseased baboons might be altered by replacing the published gene expression data of the 18 healthy baboons with that of the 200 healthy humans , we employed logistic regression analysis and calculated the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC) curve. The additional inter-individual variance of the human data set had either no impact or marginal impact on the ROC area , since up to 32-fold change gene expression differences between healthy and diseased baboons were observed.