  The threshold of 4 +/ 5 + drinks per occasion has been used for decades in alcohol research to distinguish between non-risky versus risky episodic drinking. However , no study has assessed the validity of this threshold using event-level data. This study aimed to determine the optimal thresholds for the detection of five acute alcohol-related consequences ( hangover , blackout , risky sex , fights and injury) using data from two event-level studies. An event-level study to assess the ability to use the number of drinks consumed to discriminate between nights<symptom> with and without consequences using the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( AUROC) curve. Optimal thresholds were determined using the Youden Index based on sensitivity and specificity. Separate thresholds were estimated for gender and age groups ( 16-17 versus 18-25). Lausanne and Zurich , Switzerland. Three hundred and sixty-nine participants aged 16-25 years. On 3554 weekend nights<symptom> , participants reported total number of alcoholic drinks consumed the previous night and acute consequences ( hangover , blackout , risky sex , fights and injury) FINDINGS: Hangover was the most frequently reported consequence and injury the least for both genders. Throughout age groups and studies , optimal thresholds for any consequence , and for hangover only , were equal to 4 +/ 5 + ( 40 +/ 50 + g alcohol) while those for blackouts , risky sex , fights and injuries were up to three drinks higher. Adolescents tended to experience consequences more often and at slightly lower drinking levels than did adults. For all consequences but injuries , the optimal thresholds were one to two drinks lower for women than for men. Event-level data collection techniques appear particularly suitable to estimate thresholds at which acute alcohol-related consequences occur. Binge drinking thresholds of 4 +/ 5 + ( women/men) drinks , equivalent to 40 +/ 50 + g pure alcohol , predict the occurrence of consequences accurately in general but are too low to predict severe acute alcohol-related consequences.