  A high proportion of patients with fragility fracture , mainly hip fracture , have a variable degree of comorbidity and show some degree of dependence in basic or more complex activities of daily living. Evaluating these patents following the geriatric concept of frailty , about one third of hip fracture patients may be categorised as frail with high risk of poor outcomes and prolonged length of stay , one third as not frail , and about one third with an intermediate condition. Due to the high vulnerability , combined with the hip fracture event and surgical repair procedures , a multidisciplinary approach that includes geriatric competencies becomes essential to improve short and long-term outcomes after hip fracture. A key element of an effective process of care is a true co-managed approach that applies quality standards and provides a fast-track pathway of care , minimises the time the patient spends in bed , and reduces postoperative complications by means of standardised procedures. The occurrence of a fragility fracture is the strongest risk factor for a subsequent fracture. Moreover , frail subjects have a further risk of fracture due to high risk of falls- related to loss of muscle mass , multiple illnesses , impaired balance<symptom> and weakness<symptom>. Thus , effective secondary prevention strategies are essential to reduce morbidity and mortality after hip fracture , and they are currently a standard task of orthogeriatric care. Fracture liaison services ( FLS) are probably the most efficient way of addressing secondary prevention including the assessment of both bone health and falls risk. Therefore , the optimal management of frail patients with fragility fracture includes both orthogeriatric care and FLS , which are complementary to each other. Orthogeriatric collaboration is also powerful in influencing healthcare policy. British experience as well as that in Ireland , Australia and New Zealand , have shown that when two widely disparate specialisms say the same thing , they may achieve a fundamental shift in attitudes and behaviour of both managers and clinicians. Furthermore , a continuous real-time audit , at national level , is a powerful driver for change and better standards of care.