  Decentralised clinical training ( DCT) in optometry is an emerging concept in South Africa. In 2016 , the University of KwaZulu Natal ( UKZN) implemented this adaptive model of clinical training for undergraduate health professions. The initiative , which emanated through an agreement between UKZN 's College of Health Sciences and the KwaZulu Natal Department of Health , centres on the placement of undergraduate optometry students within public health facilities for clinical training purposes. Optometry services in South Africa have , however , had a historical bias towards a private sector model of training and a curative practice approach resulting in access barriers for the rural poor and high levels of unmet need. It has further contributed to a general state of underdevelopment of eye health services within the public sector.DiscussionDCT challenges historical undergraduate programme structures and modes of teaching and learning in optometry. It is largely underpinned by a need to strengthen health service delivery through a primary health care-centred , community-based training approach and produce ` fit-for-purpose ' graduates who have contextually appropriate competencies for effective , local health service delivery. The historical absence of optometry services within the public sector has , however , contributed to limited planning for , and development of eye health services in this sector. This has inadvertently contributed to the burden of avoidable vision impairment in the country. The public health system in South Africa , therefore , faces various developmental challenges which impact eye health services and student clinical training. While the model is still in a developmental state and resourcing challenges potentially affecting DCT are noted , early experiences of the Discipline of Optometry at the UKZN are that DCT shows promise in terms of its potential contribution towards the development of eye health services within the public health sector from graduate readiness , resource strengthening , access improvement and health service development perspectives.