  Previous studies suggest that group `` mantram '' ( sacred word) repetition therapy , a non-trauma-focused complementary therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD) , may be an effective treatment for veterans. The authors compared individually delivered mantram repetition therapy and another non-trauma-focused treatment for PTSD. The study was a two-site , open-allocation , blinded-assessment randomized trial involving 173 veterans diagnosed with military-related PTSD from two Veterans Affairs outpatient clinics ( January 2012 to March 2014). The mantram group ( N = 89) learned skills for silent mantram repetition , slowing thoughts , and one-pointed attention. The comparison group ( N = 84) received present-centered therapy , focusing on currently stressful events and problem-solving skills. Both treatments were delivered individually in eight weekly 1-hour sessions. The primary outcome measure was change in PTSD symptom severity , as measured by the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale ( CAPS) and by self-report. Secondary outcome measures included insomnia , depression<symptom> , anger , spiritual well-being , mindfulness , and quality of life. Intent-to-treat analysis was conducted using linear mixed models. The mantram group had significantly greater improvements in CAPS score than the present-centered therapy group , both at the posttreatment assessment ( between-group difference across time , -9.98 , 95 % CI = -3.63 , -16.00; d = 0.49) and at the 2-month follow-up ( between-group difference , -9.34 , 95 % CI = -1.50 , -17.18; d = 0.46). Self-reported PTSD symptom severity was also lower in the mantram group compared with the present-centered therapy group at the posttreatment assessment , but there was no difference at the 2-month follow-up. Significantly more participants in the mantram group ( 59 %) than in the present-centered therapy group ( 40 %) who completed the 2-month follow-up no longer met criteria for PTSD ( p < 0.04). However , the percentage of participants in the mantram group ( 75 %) compared with participants in the present-centered therapy group ( 61 %) who experienced clinically meaningful changes ( ≥ 10-point improvements) in CAPS score did not differ significantly between groups. Reductions in insomnia were significantly greater for participants in the mantram group at both posttreatment assessment and 2-month follow-up. In a sample of veterans with PTSD , individually delivered mantram repetition therapy was generally more effective than present-centered therapy for reducing PTSD symptom severity and insomnia.