  Systematic review and meta-analysis. This study aims to determine the differences in sagittal spinopelvic parameters between adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ( AIS) Lenke types and non-scoliotic controls through a systematic review and meta-analysis of the available literature. AIS classification mainly focuses on frontal curve differences; however , the variations in the sagittal spinopelvic alignment in the current classification system is not fully established. Following PRISMA guidelines , searches were performed for sagittal spinal and pelvic parameters of Lenke types and non-scoliotic controls in PubMed , Scopus , EMBASE , and Cochrane databases. Selection criteria were: ( 1) age range 10 to 21 years; ( 2) Lenke types 1-6 ( for AIS group) or non-scoliotic adolescents ( for the control group); ( 3) preoperative data for T5-T12 thoracic kyphosis ( TK) , L1-S1 lumbar lordosis ( LL) , pelvic incidence ( PI) , sacral slope ( SS) , and sagittal vertical axis ( SVA). ( 4) Written in English language. PI-LL mismatch was calculated from the weighted average of PI and LL. Publication bias between studies and within studies quality were assessed. A meta-regression compared each measured variable between groups. Thoracic ( Lenke1 and 2) and thoracolumbar/lumbar ( Lenke 5 and 6) scoliosis were combined and statistically compared with the control group. Meta-analysis , including 81 AIS and 18 control studies , showed no significant differences in sagittal parameters between Lenke types and controls for LL , PI , PI-LL mismatch , SS , and SVA ( P > 0.05). Publication bias was significant in Lenke 1 TK , Control LL , and Lenke 1 , and 5 SVA. Stratification based on deformity region ( thoracic vs. thoracolumbar/lumbar) showed no significant differences in sagittal spinopelvic parameters ( P > 0.05). No definitive difference was found between non-scoliotic adolescents and Lenke types in sagittal spinal and pelvic parameters. Future studies on developing a sagittal classification specific to AIS patients with a goal to improve surgical planning and outcome prediction are highly encouraged. 4.