  Chronic inflammation<symptom> plays an important role in the initiation and progression of gastric cancer ( GC). However , the role and relationship of activated macrophages with gastric mucous epithelium cells in initiating and maintaining the inflammatory process during gastric carcinogenesis remains unclear. The tumour associated macrophages ( TAMs) density of gastric cancer was characterized by immunohistochemistry , and the relationship between macrophages and gastric epithelium cells was analysed using an in vitro culture system that imitates the inflammatory microenvironment. The production of pro-inflammatory cytokines was detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA) and quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR). MTT assays , Western blotting , qRT-PCR , and luciferase reporter assays were used to detect the effects of cell proliferation , as well as the NF-κB and STAT3 signalling pathways. TAMs infiltrated with a high intensity in GC and were significantly correlated with histology grade ( P = 0.012) , metastasis ( P = 0.001) , TNM stage ( P = 0.002) , and poor prognosis in patients ( PFS , P = 0.005; OS , P = 0.028). In addition , IL-6 and IL-8 were elevated in the serum of GC patients and significantly promoted the growth of GC. The exposure of BGC823 gastric cancer cells to a conditioned medium from LPS-treated D-THP-1 cells significantly induced the production of TNF-α , IL-6 , IL-1β and IL-8 ( P < 0.01). LPS and LPS-treated D-THP-1-conditioned media promoted gastric cancer cell proliferation and triggered the significant activation of NF-κB and STAT3 with a concomitant degradation of IκBα and an increase in JAK2 phosphorylation ( P < 0.05). Moreover , gastric cancer cells markedly expressed cell membrane LPS receptors , such as TLR1 , TLR4 , TLR6 , CD14 and MD2. TAMs are closely associated with the growth of GC and prognosis in GC patients. GC cells may directly sustain and amplify the local pro-inflammatory response upon encountering activated macrophages and LPS via NF-κB and STAT3 signalling pathways , thereby promoting tumour progression.