  Combination of dyslipidemic phenotypes , including elevated plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C) , elevated plasma triglycerides ( TG) , and decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C) concentrations , is important because of the association of individual phenotypes with increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( CVD). We investigated the prevalence of combined dyslipidemias and their effects on CVD risk in an Iranian large population. A total of 9847 individuals were recruited as part of the Mashhad Stroke and Heart Atherosclerotic Disorders ( MASHAD) cohort study. Anthropometric parameters and biochemical indices were measured in all of the subjects. Different types of combined dyslipidemias including high TG + low HDL-C , high TG + low HDL-C + high LDL-C , low HDL-C + high LDL-C , high TG + high LDL-C , and finally high TG + high LDL-C + low HDL-C were considered. Ten-year CVD risk was calculated using the QRISK2 risk algorithm and adjustments were made as suggested by the Joint British Societies ' ( JBS2). Logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the association between different combined dyslipidemias and categorical QRISK. A total of 3952 males and 5895 females were included in this current study. Among the included subjects , 83.4 % had one form of dyslipidemia , and 16.6 % subjects were not dyslipidemic. The mean age was 48.88 ± 7.9 and 47.02 ± 8.54 years for dyslipidemic and nondyslipidemic groups , respectively. The results showed that the frequency of dyslipidemia was 98 % , 87.1 % , and 90 % in subjects with metabolic syndrome<disease> , CVD , and diabetes , respectively. Our results suggested that around 15.7 % of study population were at 10 years CVD risk ( high ≥ 20) and it was higher in men than women ( P < .001). Moreover , risk of CVD was higher in TG ↑ & HDL ↓ & LDL ↑ group than other groups. Prevalence of dyslipidemia was 83.4 % among Iranian adults. The results showed that individuals with increased plasma TG and LDL-C , and low HDL-C levels had the highest 10 years CVD risk compared to other combined dyslipidemic phenotypes.