  The benefit of colonoscopy for colorectal cancer prevention depends on the adenoma detection rate ( ADR). The ADR should reflect adenoma prevalence rate , estimated to be greater than 50 % among the screening-age population. Yet the rate of adenoma detection by colonoscopists varies from 7 % to 53 %. It is estimated that every 1 % increase in ADR reduces the risk of interval colorectal cancers by 3-6 %. New strategies are needed to increase the ADR during colonoscopy. We tested the ability of computer-assisted image analysis , with convolutional neural networks ( a deep learning model for image analysis) , to improve polyp detection , a surrogate of ADR. We designed and trained deep convolutional neural networks ( CNN) to detect polyps using a diverse and representative set of 8641 hand labeled images from screening colonoscopies collected from over 2000 patients. We tested the models on 20 colonoscopy videos with a total duration of 5 hours. Expert colonoscopists were asked to identify all polyps in 9 de-identified colonoscopy videos , selected from archived video studies , either with or without benefit of the CNN overlay. Their findings were compared with those of the CNN , using CNN-assisted expert review as the reference. When tested on manually labeled images , the CNN identified polyps with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( ROC-AUC) of 0.991 and an accuracy of 96.4 %. In the analysis of colonoscopy videos in which 28 polyps were removed , 4 expert reviewers identified 8 additional polyps without CNN assistance that had not been removed and identified an additional 17 polyps with CNN assistance ( 45 in total). All polyps removed and identified by expert review were detected by the CNN. The CNN had a false-positive rate of 7 %. In a set of 8641 colonoscopy images containing 4088 unique polyps the CNN identified polyps with a cross-validation accuracy of 96.4 % and ROC-AUC value of 0.991. The CNN system can detect and localize polyps well within real-time constraints using an ordinary desktop machine with a contemporary graphics processing unit. This system could increase ADR and reduce interval colorectal cancers but requires validation in large multicenter trials.