  Coarse-grained molecular dynamics ( MD) simulations represent a powerful approach to simulate longer time scale and larger length scale phenomena than those accessible to all-atom models. The gain in efficiency , however , comes at the cost of atomistic details. The reverse transformation , also known as back mapping , of coarse-grained beads into their atomistic constituents represents a major challenge. Most existing approaches are limited to specific molecules or specific force fields and often rely on running a long-time atomistic MD of the back-mapped configuration to arrive at an optimal solution. Such approaches are problematic when dealing with systems with high diffusion barriers. Here , we introduce a new extension of the configurational-bias Monte Carlo ( CBMC) algorithm , which we term the crystalline-configurational-bias Monte Carlo ( C-CBMC) algorithm , which allows rapid and efficient conversion of a coarse-grained model back into its atomistic representation. Although the method is generic , we use a coarse-grained water model as a representative example and demonstrate the back mapping or reverse transformation for model systems ranging from the ice-liquid water interface to amorphous and crystalline ice configurations. A series of simulations using the TIP4P/Ice model are performed to compare the new CBMC method to several other standard Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics-based back-mapping techniques. In all of the cases , the C-CBMC algorithm is able to find optimal hydrogen-bonded configuration many thousand evaluations/steps sooner than the other methods compared within this paper. For crystalline ice structures , such as a hexagonal , cubic , and cubic-hexagonal stacking disorder structures , the C-CBMC was able to find structures that were between 0.05 and 0.1 eV/water molecule lower in energy than the ground-state energies predicted by the other methods. Detailed analysis of the atomistic structures shows a significantly better global hydrogen positioning when contrasted with the existing simpler back-mapping methods. The errors in the radial distribution functions ( RDFs) of back-mapped configuration relative to reference configuration for the C-CBMC , MD , and MC were found to be 6.9 , 8.7 , and 12.9 , respectively , for the hexagonal system. For the cubic system , the relative errors of the RDFs for the C-CBMC , MD , and MC were found to be 18.2 , 34.6 , and 39.0 , respectively. Our results demonstrate the efficiency and efficacy of our new back-mapping approach , especially for crystalline systems where simple force-field-based relaxations have a tendency to get trapped in local minima.