  Acculturation among Hispanic/Latinos has been linked to deteriorating dietary quality that may contribute to obesity risks. This study examined the relationship between acculturation , ethnic identity , and dietary quality in U.S. Hispanic/Latino youth. This cross-sectional study included 1298 Hispanic/Latino youth ages 8-16 from the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latino Youth ( HCHS/SOL Youth) , an ancillary study of offspring of participants in the adult HCHS/SOL cohort. Multivariable regression analyses assessed relationships between acculturation and ethnic identity with dietary quality as measured by Healthy Eating Index ( HEI) scores , accounting for covariates , design effects , and sample weights. We also compared HEI scores by immigrant generation and language of interview. Youth were 12 ± 2.5- years and 49.3 % female. They were placed into five acculturation categories-including 48 % integrated ( bicultural orientation) , 32.7 % assimilated ( high U.S. and low Latino orientation) , 5.9 % separated ( high Latino and low U.S. orientation) or marginalized ( neither U.S. nor Latino orientation) , and 13.3 % unclassified. Mean HEI was 53.8; there were no differences in HEI scores by acculturation category , but integrated youth had higher whole grains scores , lower sodium scores , and lower empty calories scores compared to assimilated youth. There were no differences in HEI scores by ethnic identity scores , and no consistent trend between dietary quality and ethnic identity. First- and second-generation youth had higher HEI scores , compared to third-generation youth , and , Spanish-speaking youth had higher HEI scores compared to English-speaking youth. Results suggest that integrated youth in the U.S. may engage in healthier eating behaviors than those who are assimilated. Additional research on Hispanic/Latino youths ' acculturation and diet can inform health promotion efforts to improve eating habits and health outcomes among this population.