  Objectives and importance of study: Low program completion rates can undermine the public health impact of even the most effective program. Participant experiences with lifestyle programs are not well reported , but are important for program improvement and retention. The purpose of this study was to understand participant perceptions of the Get Healthy Information and Coaching Service ( GHS) , a 6-month telephone-based health coaching program to promote lifestyle change. We were particularly interested in participants ' initial expectations , their actual experience and , for those who did not complete the program , what influenced their withdrawal. The study included qualitative semistructured interviews and a quantitative sociodemographic survey. A random sample of GHS participants ( n = 59) was recruited to take part in semistructured interviews about their perceptions and experiences of the coaching program. Researchers conducted independent thematic analysis of the interview transcripts. Sociodemographic details were obtained from a quantitative survey of all GHS participants. Participants expected that coaching would provide support , information and motivation , and would hold them accountable. Coach support was the most valued aspect of the participants ' experience. Despite high attrition rates , participants were mostly positive about their coaching experience. Service structure or individual circumstances , rather than the program itself , were the main reasons for withdrawal. A positive coaching experience was underpinned by good participant-coach rapport , which facilitated participant adherence and motivation to achieve their goals and complete the program. It is possible that participants who start to achieve their goals are motivated to continue with the program , and that their motivation moves from relying on their coach to being more intrinsically motivated. Reasons for high attrition provide insights into the coaching structure and process , and suggest that ensuring an individualised coaching approach and flexibility with follow-up calls ( including alternative communication methods) are changes that could be used to improve practice and retain more participants for the duration of the program. Notwithstanding high attrition rates , participants were mostly positive about their coaching experience. Barriers to participants completing the program could be used to shape service redesign.