  Pediatric intensivists frequently prescribe platelet transfusions to critically ill children , but there are limited data on platelet transfusion practice and platelet transfusion-related outcomes in the PICU. In this study , we evaluated the current platelet transfusion practice and platelet transfusion-related outcomes in the PICU. Institutional review board-approved , retrospective cohort study from January 2010 to March 2016. Tertiary-level PICU. Children less than 19 years old who received platelet transfusions in the PICU. None. Thirty-six percent ( 1,547/ 4,339) of platelet transfusions in the institution were given to 2.4 % of PICU patients ( 232/9 ,659). The patients who received a platelet transfusion ( platelet transfusions , n = 232) compared with those who did not receive platelets ( no platelet transfusions , n = 9,427) were younger , had similar gender distribution , had a higher median Pediatric Risk of Mortality-3 score , and stayed longer in the PICU. Fifty percent of platelet transfusions were prescribed prophylactically for thrombocytopenia<symptom> to patients without extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support. The mortality was higher for platelet transfusions group ( 30 % vs 2.3 %) with an 18 times increased unadjusted odds of mortality when compared with no platelet transfusion group ( odds ratio , 18.2; 95 % CI , 13.3-24.8; p < 0.0001). In a multiple logistic regression analysis , the predicted probability of dying for platelet transfusion group compared with no platelet transfusion group depended on the median Pediatric Risk of Mortality-3 score. Patients who received platelet transfusion versus no platelet transfusion have increased odds of dying at lower median Pediatric Risk of Mortality-3 scores , but decreased odds of dying at higher median Pediatric Risk of Mortality-3 scores. This PICU cohort demonstrates that the odds or predicted probability of dying change in patients who received platelet transfusions based on underlying disease severity measured by Pediatric Risk of Mortality-3 score compared with patients who did not receive platelet transfusions. A large , prospective trial is required to confirm this association and determine whether to consider underlying disease severity in estimating risks and benefits of prophylactic platelet transfusions in critically ill children.