  The ` Grain for Green<symptom> ' project ( GGP) is the largest ecological rehabilitation project in China. A large body of croplands has been abandoned or converted to shrubs or grasslands since 1999. Soil microbes are recognized as sensitive responders of environmental changes , therefore , they are considered as a key component of ecological rehabilitation. However , very limited field experiments have been conducted to investigate the responses of soil microorganisms to restoration projects , especially in karst regions of China. In order to evaluate the response of soil microbial community to ecological restoration , we determined soil microbial community composition by means of qPCR , PLFAs , and high-throughput amplicon sequencing following conversion of cropland to Chinese prickly ash ( Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim) orchard ( CP) along a 20-year chronosequence in a degraded karst ecosystem. Our results showed that soil nutrient contents significantly increased following cropland to CP conversion. qPCR results showed that the highest bacterial abundance was found in the 20-year CP , but bacterial abundance decreased during the first 5-year land-use conversion. Conversion of cropland to CP strongly impacted soil microbial community composition , despite the cropland sites having a long cultivation history ( > 50 years). However , soil bacterial diversity remained unchanged within a 20-year land-use conversion. Actinobacteria , Proteobacteria , and Acidobacteria were the main bacterial phyla in all land-use sites. In particular , various members of Actinobacteria ( e.g. , Solirubrobacteraceae) tended to increase their relative abundances in responding to land-use conversion , which may imply that the shifts of soil microbial communities associated with recovering of ecological conditions. Overall , given the rapid yet differential response to ecological restoration , investigation of the belowground microbial community can provide an effective way of assessing ecological recovery of restoration projects in the karst region.