  Mixed forests of Quercus ilex L. and Pinus pinea L. are widely found throughout the Mediterranean Basin , being representative of two co-existing functional types: evergreen-sclerophyllous drought-resistant species and Mediterranean-adapted drought-avoidant conifers. Their contrasting physiological strategies to cope with water deficit influence all the processes regulating their growth such as wood formation , leading to peculiar tree-ring anatomical features such as intra-annual density fluctuations ( IADFs). Intra-annual density fluctuations are abrupt changes in wood anatomical traits within a tree ring , appearing as latewood-like cells within earlywood or earlywood-like cells within latewood , and are frequently found in Mediterranean species as a response to seasonal climate changes. In this study , we characterized the anatomical traits and composition of carbon and oxygen stable isotopes in IADFs occurring in tree rings of Q. ilex and P. pinea trees co-existing at a same site in Southern Italy , in order to link their xylem hydraulic properties with the related physiological mechanisms. The relationships between IADF occurrence and seasonal mean temperature and total precipitation were investigated , with the aim of assessing whether they can be used as indicators of species-specific responses to intra-annual climate fluctuations. Results show that IADF period of formation is during autumn months for both species. The influence of climate on IADF occurrence was found to be an indicator of species-specific response to climate: an increased stomatal conductance associated to the formation of a wood safer against embolism was found in Q. ilex , while a tighter stomatal control associated to a more efficient wood with regard to hydraulic conductivity occurred in P. pinea. Moreover , the assessment of the influence of climate on IADF occurrence indicates that , with rising temperatures , Q. ilex would form fewer IADFs compared with P. pinea. Other study cases are desirable to assess the suggested forecasts and to link the plasticity of the species to form IADFs with their effective adaptive capability to compete for resources , and to explain how it may influence future population development.