  Bile duct injury remains a serious complication of laparoscopic cholecystectomy despite established criteria for the critical view of safety ( CVS). Using surgical videos , we compared surgeons ' willingness to divide critical structures based on their assessment of the CVS dissection. Participants reviewed 20 operative videos lasting 1 minute each , edited at various points of the CVS dissection. Participants stated whether the structures were safe to divide , and if not , what steps they would take to achieve an adequate dissection. Videos were independently scored using a validated scale and categorized as an `` adequate '' or `` inadequate '' dissection based on the score. Participants were blinded to CVS score and adequacy. Cohen 's kappa statistic was used to evaluate inter-rater agreement and responses were compared by univariate analysis. University of Michigan , Ann Arbor , Michigan. Tertiary care university hospital. General surgery residents ( n = 13) and faculty ( n = 13) at the study institution. There was minimal agreement on willingness to divide critical structures among all participants ( κ = 0.25) , among faculty ( κ = 0.30) , and among residents ( κ = 0.21). Participants were more willing to divide critical structures when videos showed an adequate CVS dissection ( CVS score ≥ 4) than an inadequate dissection ( CVS score ≤ 3) ( 60.4 % vs. 16.3 % , p = 0.043). For inadequate dissections , participants most commonly recommended further dissection of the hepatocystic triangle ( 30.8 %). There was no significant difference in the rate of unsafe practices ( choosing to divide critical structures for videos with an `` inadequate '' dissection) between faculty and residents ( 14.2 % vs. 18.3 % , p = 0.781). There was minimal agreement on what constituted a safe CVS dissection and there was no difference in the rate of unsafe practices between trainees and faculty. Education may play a more important role than experience when building a culture of safety for laparoscopic cholecystectomy.