  A classification for peri-implant diseases and conditions was presented. Focused questions on the characteristics of peri-implant health , peri-implant mucositis , peri-implantitis , and soft- and hard-tissue deficiencies were addressed. Peri-implant health is characterized by the absence of erythema , bleeding on probing , swelling , and suppuration. It is not possible to define a range of probing depths compatible with health; Peri-implant health can exist around implants with reduced bone support. The main clinical characteristic of peri-implant mucositis is bleeding on gentle probing. Erythema , swelling , and/or suppuration may also be present. An increase in probing depth is often observed in the presence of peri-implant mucositis due to swelling or decrease in probing resistance. There is strong evidence from animal and human experimental studies that plaque is the etiological factor for peri-implant mucositis. Peri-implantitis is a plaque-associated pathological condition occurring in tissues around dental implants , characterized by inflammation<symptom> in the peri-implant mucosa and subsequent progressive<symptom> loss<symptom> of supporting bone. Peri-implantitis sites exhibit clinical signs of inflammation<symptom> , bleeding on probing , and/or suppuration , increased probing depths and/or recession of the mucosal margin in addition to radiographic bone loss. The evidence is equivocal regarding the effect of keratinized mucosa on the long-term health of the peri-implant tissue. It appears , however , that keratinized mucosa may have advantages regarding patient comfort and ease of plaque removal. Case definitions in day-to-day clinical practice and in epidemiological or disease-surveillance studies for peri-implant health , peri-implant mucositis , and peri-implantitis were introduced. The proposed case definitions should be viewed within the context that there is no generic implant and that there are numerous implant designs with different surface characteristics , surgical and loading protocols. It is recommended that the clinician obtain baseline radiographic and probing measurements following the completion of the implant-supported prosthesis.