  What is the central question of this study? In this study , we investigated whether targeted ablation of cardiac sympathetic neurons ( TACSN) could suppress myocardial infarction-induced adverse cardiac remodeling and left ventricle dysfunction. What is the main finding and its importance? TACSN significantly alleviated sympathetic remodeling and neuroendocrine activation , attenuated cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis<disease> , and improved the left ventricular function. Thus , TACSN may have a beneficial effect on adverse post-infarction remodeling and left ventricle dysfunction. Sympathetic overactivation is critical in the development and progression of adverse cardiac remodeling and dysfunction. Targeted ablation of cardiac sympathetic neurons ( TACSN) is an effective approach to inhibit the overactivation of sympathetic nervous system. The aim of this study was to investigate whether TACSN could suppress myocardial infarction ( MI)- induced adverse cardiac remodeling and dysfunction , thereby producing protective effects. Thirty-eight dogs were randomly assigned into the sham-operated , MI and MI-TACSN groups , respectively. TACSN was induced by injecting cholera<disease> toxin B subunit-saporin compound in the stellate ganglia after 1 week of MI. Five weeks after MI surgery , echocardiographic and hemodynamic parameters of cardiac function were significantly improved in the TACSN group compared with the MI group. In addition , TACSN attenuated the extent of cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis<disease> , suppressed the increase of the plasma levels of norepinephrine , nerve growth factor , atrial natriuretic peptide , brain natriuretic peptide , angiotensin II , and aldosterone. Furthermore , TACSN alleviated the growth associated protein-43 and tyrosine hydroxylase positive nerve densities in infarcted border zone , and restored the protein expression of β1-adrenergic receptor of left ventricular myocardium. These findings indicate that TACSN may have a beneficial effect on adverse post-infarction remodeling and left ventricle dysfunction , which may be at least in part due to the attenuation of both sympathetic remodeling and cardiac neuroendocrine system. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.