  Children at familial high risk of schizophrenia spectrum disorders ( FHR-SZ) or bipolar disorder ( FHR-BP) exhibit neurocognitive impairments. Large studies of neurocognition in young children at familial high risk at the same age are important to differentiate the pathophysiology and developmental trajectory of these 2 groups. To characterize neurocognitive functions in 7-year-old children with FHR-SZ or FHR-BP and a control population. This multisite population-based cohort study collected data from January 1 , 2013 , to January 31 , 2016 , in the first wave of the Danish High Risk and Resilience Study VIA 7 at 2 university hospital research sites in Copenhagen and Aarhus using Danish registries. Participants ( n = 514) included 197 children with FHR-SZ , 118 with FHR-BP , and 199 controls matched with the FHR-SZ group for age , sex , and municipality. Assessors were blinded to risk status. Parents with schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , or neither diagnosis. Neurocognitive functions were measured across 23 tests. Four neurocognitive domains were derived by principal component analysis , including processing speed and working memory , verbal functions , executive and visuospatial functions , and declarative memory and attention. A total of 514 children aged 7 years were included in the analysis ( 46.3 % girls) , consisting of 197 children with FHR-SZ ( 46.2 % girls) , 118 with FHR-BP ( 46.6 % girls) , and 199 controls ( 46.2 % girls). Children with FHR-SZ were significantly impaired compared with controls on processing speed and working memory ( Cohen d = 0.50; P < .001) , executive and visuospatial functions ( Cohen d = 0.28; P = .03) , and declarative memory and attention ( Cohen d = 0.29; P = .02). Compared with children with FHR-BP , children with FHR-SZ performed significantly poorer in processing speed and working memory ( Cohen d = 0.40; P = .002) , executive and visuospatial functions ( Cohen d = 0.35; P = .008) , and declarative memory and attention ( Cohen d = 0.31; P = .03). Children with FHR-BP and controls did not differ. Children with FHR-SZ had widespread neurocognitive impairments , supporting the hypothesis of neurocognitive functions as endophenotypes of schizophrenia. The absence of neurocognitive deficits in children with FHR-BP suggests distinct neurodevelopmental manifestations in these familial high-risk groups at this age. Early detection of children with FHR-SZ and cognitive impairments is warranted to investigate associations of neurocognition with transition to psychosis , add to the knowledge of their developmental pathophysiology , and inform early intervention programs.