  Unrecognized incomplete pulmonary vein isolation ( PVI) , as opposed to post-PVI pulmonary vein reconnection , may be responsible for clinical recurrences of atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( AF). To date , no data are available on the use of high-resolution mapping ( HRM) during cryoballoon ( CB) ablation for AF as the index procedure. The aims of this study were:- to assess the value of using a HRM system during CB ablation procedures in terms of ability in acutely detecting incomplete CB lesions<symptom>;- to compare the 8-pole circular mapping catheter ( CMC , Achieve) and the 64-pole mini-basket catheter ( Orion) with respect to pulmonary vein ( PV) signals detection at baseline and after CB ablation;- to characterize the extension of the lesion<symptom> produced by CB ablation by means of high-density voltage mapping. Consecutive patients with drug-resistant paroxysmal or early-persistent AF undergoing CB ablation as the index procedure , assisted by a HRM system , were retrospectively included in this study. A total of 33 patients ( 25 males; mean age: 59 ± 18 years , 28 paroxysmal AF) were included. At baseline , CMC catheter revealed PV activity in 102 PVs ( 77 %) , while the Orion documented PV signals in all veins ( 100 %). Failure of complete CB-PVI was more frequently revealed by atrial re-mapping with the Orion as compared to the Achieve catheter ( 24 % vs 0 % , p < 0.05). A repeat ablation was performed in 8 patients ( 24 %). In 9 % of cases , the Orion catheter detected far-field signals originating from the right atrium. Quantitative assessment of the created lesion<symptom> revealed a significant reduction of the left atrial area having voltage > 0.5 mV. A total of 29 patients ( 88 %) remained free of symptomatic AF during a mean follow-up of 13.2 ± 3.7 months. Atrial re-mapping after CB ablation by means of a HRM system improves the detection of areas of incomplete ablation , characterizes the extension of the cryo-ablated tissue and can identify abolishment of potential non-PVI related sources of AF.