  In the present study , we investigated the relationship between sphenoid sinus , carotid canal , and optic canal on paranasal sinus computed tomography ( PNSCT). This study was performed retrospectively. PNSCT images of 300 adult subjects ( 159 male , 141 female). Sphenoid sinus ( pneumatisation , dominancy , septation , inter-sinus septa deviation) , anterior clinoid process pneumatisation , Onodi cell , carotid and optic canals ( width , dehiscence , classification) were measured. In males , type 3 pneumatised sphenoid sinus ( in both sides) and in females type 2 pneumatised sphenoid sinus ( right side) and type 3 pneumatised sphenoid sinus ( left side) were detected more. Anterior clinoid pneumatisation was present 47.2 % in males and 39.7 % in females. In male group , more septation ( i.e. 22.6 % , ≥ 3 septa) in sphenoid sinus were detected. Onodi cell was present 26.6 and 19.1 % in males and females , respectively. Carotid canal protrudation to the sphenoid sinus wall was present 23.9-32.1 % in males and 35.5-36.2 % in females. Dehiscence in carotid canal was detected more in females ( 34 %) compared to males ( 22 %). Optic canal protrudation was 33.3 and 30.5 % in males and females. Type 4 optic canal was detected more in both gender. Optic canal dehiscence was detected 11.3 and 9.9 % in males and females. Carotid and optic canal diameters were higher in males. In pneumatised sphenoid sinuses and in females , type 3 carotid canal ( Protrudation to SS wall) ( bilaterally) and type 1 optic canal type ( No indentation) ( ipsilateral side) were detected more. In elderly patients , carotid and optic canal width increased. When carotid canal protrudation was detected , there was no indentation in optic canals In pneumatised SS , carotid canal protrudation was observed with a greater risk in surgery. However , type 1 ( non indentation) optic canal was present in highly pneumatised SS with lower risk for the surgery. In women , the risk of carotid canal protruding ( about 1/3) is greater than that of males , and carotid canal dehiscence rates are also higher in females. Therefore , physicians should be very careful during the preparatory stages of the sphenoid sinus surgery. Otherwise , it may not be possible to prevent lethal carotid artery bleeds.