  This study examined 1) the cross-sectional relationships between symptoms of depression/anxiety and immunometabolic risk factors , and 2) whether these relationships might be explained in part by cardiac vagal activity. Data were drawn from the Adult Health and Behavior registries ( n = 1785) , comprised of community dwelling adults ( 52.8 % women , aged 30-54). Depressive symptoms were measured with the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression<symptom> Scale ( CES-D) and the Beck Depression<symptom> Inventory-II ( BDI-II) , and anxious symptoms with the Trait Anxiety<symptom> scale of the State-Trait Anxiety<symptom> Inventory ( STAI-T). Immunometabolic risk factors included fasting levels of triglycerides , high-density lipoproteins , glucose , and insulin , as well as blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> , waist circumference , body mass index , C-reactive protein , and interleukin-6. Measures of cardiac autonomic activity were high- and low-frequency indicators of heart rate variability ( HRV) , standard deviation of normal-to-normal R-R intervals , and the mean of absolute and successive differences in R-R intervals. Higher BDI-II scores , in contrast to CES-D and STAI-T scores , were associated with increased immunometabolic risk and decreased HRV , especially HRV likely reflecting cardiac vagal activity. Decreased HRV was also associated with increased immunometabolic risk. Structural equation models indicated that BDI-II scores may relate to immunometabolic risk via cardiac vagal activity ( indirect effect: β = .012 , p = .046) or to vagal activity via immunometabolic risk ( indirect effect: β = -.015 , p = .021). Depressive symptoms , as measured by the BDI-II , but not anxious symptoms , were related to elevated levels of immunometabolic risk factors and low cardiac vagal activity. The latter may exhibit bidirectional influences on one another in a meditational framework. Future longitudinal , intervention , an nonhuman animal work is needed to elucidate the precise and mechanistic pathways linking depressive symptoms to immune , metabolic , and autonomic parameters of physiology that predispose to cardiovascular disease risk.