  While positive social support is associated with lower prevalence of disease and better treatment outcomes , negative social relationships can instead have unfavourable consequences for several physical and mental health conditions. However , the specific mechanisms by which this nexus might operate remain poorly understood. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis hyperactivity owing to psychosocial stress has been proposed as a potential pathway underlying the link between social support and health. Hair glucocorticoids such as cortisol and cortisone are emerging as promising biomarkers of long-term retrospective HPA activation. Therefore , the aim of this investigation was to examine the effects of positive and negative experiences of social support within key relationships ( i.e. spouse/partner , children , other family members , and friends) on cortisol and cortisone. These associations were tested in a sample of 2520 older adults ( mean age 68.1) from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing. Hair samples were collected in wave 6 ( 2012/13). To understand the impact of cumulative exposure to poor social support , the analysis used self-reported data from waves 4 ( 2008/09) and 6. Covariates included demographic , socioeconomic , lifestyle , and hair characteristics. In cross sectional analyses , lower positive support from all sources and specifically from children were associated with higher cortisol. Additionally , lower positive support from children was positively associated with cortisone. Similarly , higher overall negative support was related to higher cortisol , and greater negative support from children was also positively associated with cortisone. In longitudinal analyses , there was evidence for positive associations between hair glucocorticoids and cumulative exposure to poorer social support. Experiences of low positive and high negative social support , particularly from children , were both related to higher hair glucocorticoids. Hence , social relationships of poorer quality in later life may have adverse effects on the HPA axis thereby increasing the individual 's susceptibility to poor health.