  To identify the indications for hysterectomy , preoperative assessment , and available alternatives required prior to hysterectomy. Patient self-reported outcomes of hysterectomy have revealed high levels of patient satisfaction. These may be maximized by careful preoperative assessment and discussion of other treatment choices. In most cases hysterectomy is performed to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life. The patient 's preference regarding treatment alternatives must be considered carefully. The areas of clinical practice considered in formulating this guideline are preoperative assessment including alternative treatments , choice of method for hysterectomy , and evaluation of risks and benefits. The risk-to-benefit ratio must be examined individually by the woman and her health practitioners. Optimizing the decision-making process of women and their caregivers in proceeding with a hysterectomy having considered the disease process , and available alternative treatments and options , and having reviewed the risks and anticipated benefits. Using Medline , PubMed , and the Cochrane Database , English language articles were reviewed from 1996 to 2001 as well as the review published in the 1996 SOGC guidelines. The level of evidence has been determined using the criteria described by the Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination. Hysterectomy is the treatment of choice for certain gynaecologic conditions. The predicted advantages must be carefully weighed against the possible risks of the surgery and other treatment alternatives. In the properly selected patient , the result from the surgery should be an improvement in the quality of life. The cost of the surgery to the health care system and to the patient must be interpreted in the context of the cost of untreated conditions. The approach selected for the hysterectomy will impact on the cost of the surgery. Benign Disease Preinvasive Disease Invasive Disease Acute Conditions Other Indications Surgical Approach VALIDATION: Medline searches were performed in preparing this guideline with input from experts in their field across Canada. The guideline was reviewed and accepted by SOGC Council and Executive. The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada.