  Kogure , GS , Silva , RC , Miranda-Furtado , CL , Ribeiro , VB , Pedroso , DCC , Melo , AS , Ferriani , RA , and Reis , RMd. Hyperandrogenism enhances muscle strength after progressive resistance training , independent of body composition , in women with polycystic ovary syndrome<disease>. J Strength Cond Res XX ( X): 000-000 , 2018-The effects of resistance exercise on muscle strength , body composition , and increase in cross-sectional area of skeletal muscle ( hypertrophy) were evaluated in women with polycystic ovary syndrome<disease> ( PCOS). This case-control study included 45 PCOS and 52 non-PCOS women , with age between 18-37 years and body mass index of 18-39.9 kg · m. Subjects performed a program of progressive resistance training ( PRT) , 3 times per week for 4 months. Biochemical characteristics were measured before and after PRT. Muscle strength evaluated by 1 maximum repetition test and body composition and hypertrophy indicator , evaluated by anthropometry , were measured at baseline , at 8 weeks , and at 16 weeks after PRT. Progressive resistance training produced an increase in maximum strength ( bench press , p = 0.04; leg extension , p = 0.04) in the PCOS group; however , no changes were observed in body composition between groups. Concentration of testosterone decreased in both PCOS and non-PCOS groups ( p < 0.01 , both) after PRT , as well as glycemia ( PCOS , p = 0.01; non-PCOS , p = 0.02) and body fat percentage ( p < 0.01 , both). An increase in hypertrophy indicators , lean body mass ( LBM) , and maximum strength on all exercises was observed in both PCOS and non-PCOS groups ( p < 0.01). This training protocol promoted increases in muscle strength in PCOS women , and improved hyperandrogenism and body composition by decreasing body fat and increasing LBM and muscle strength in both PCOS and non-PCOS groups. Therefore , it is suggested that resistance exercise programs could promote health and fitness in women of reproductive age , especially functional capacity of strength those with PCOS.