  Herein , we introduce a methodology for estimating the absorbed dose in organs at risk that is based on specified clinically derived radiopharmaceutical biodistributions and personalized anatomical characteristics. To evaluate the proposed methodology , we used realistic Monte Carlo ( MC) simulations and computational pediatric models to calculate a parameter called in this work the `` specific absorbed dose rate '' ( SADR). The SADR is a unique quantitative metric in that it is specific to a particular organ. It is defined as the absorbed dose rate in an organ when the biodistribution of radioactivity over the whole body is considered. Initially , we applied a validation procedure that calculated specific absorbed fractions ( SAFs) from mono-energetic photon sources in the range of 10 keV-2 MeV and compared them with previously published data. We calculated the SADRs for five different radiopharmaceuticals ( The ratios of SAFs calculated with GATE simulations to those based on previously published data were between 0.9 and 2.2 when the liver was used as a source organ. Subsequently , we used GATE to calculate a dataset of SADRs for the six pediatric models. The SADRs for pediatric models whose total body weights ranged from 20 to 40 kg varied up to approximately 90 % , whereas those for models of similar body masses varied less than 15 %. Finally , we found absorbed dose discrepancies of approximately 10-150 % between the SADR methodology and OLINDA for two different radiopharmaceuticals. Absorbed doses from SADRs and from individualized S-values in the same pediatric model differed approximately 1-50 %. Because pediatric radiopharmaceutical dosimetric estimates demonstrate large variation due to the patient 's anatomical characteristics , personalized data should be considered. Using our SADR method in a larger population of phantoms and for a variety of radiopharmaceuticals could enhance the personalization of dosimetry in pediatric nuclear medicine. The proposed methodology provides the advantage of creating time-dependent organ dose rate curves.