  Evidence used to guide the current Institute of Medicine ( IOM) gestational weight gain ( GWG) recommendations is largely derived from studies of European descent , and as such the guidelines are the same for all races and ethnicities. The guidelines are also the same for prepregnancy obesity classes I through III. Considering these literature gaps , we aim to ( 1) determine the association between the IOM GWG guidelines and three common pregnancy complications: preeclampsia , gestational diabetes mellitus , and cesarean delivery in a racially and ethnically diverse population; and ( 2) assess whether the association between GWG and pregnancy complications differs by race/ethnicity or prepregnancy body mass index ( BMI) categories , particularly obesity classes I through III. To address these aims , we analyzed data from the Boston Birth Cohort. We calculated GWG using data from electronic medical records or , when missing , from a postdelivery questionnaire. We examined GWG continuously and categorically using the IOM formula. Of the 5,568 women included , 54.5 % met the IOM criterion for excessive GWG. Compared to women who had adequate GWG , women who gained excessive weight had 1.65 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI) 1.27-2.14) times greater odds of preeclampsia; 1.68 ( 95 % CI 1.15-2.46) times greater odds of gestational diabetes; and no significant change in odds of cesarean delivery ( odds ratio ( OR) = 1.14 , 95 % CI 0.99-1.31). Associations did not differ by race , ethnicity , or prepregnancy BMI categories including comparisons of obesity class I versus II or III ( all p-values for interaction > 0.05). In this racially and ethnically diverse population , excessive GWG was associated with higher odds of preeclampsia , gestational diabetes , and nonsignificantly , with cesarean delivery. Associations did not differ appreciably by race , ethnicity , or prepregnancy BMI categories. Our results support the relevance of the IOM GWG recommendations in racially and ethnically diverse populations , and in women in the higher prepregnancy obesity classes.