  Radiofrequency ablation ( RFA) is safe and effective for eradicating Barrett 's esophagus ( BE) but is associated with significant postprocedural pain. Alternatively , balloon-based focal cryoablation ( CRYO) has recently been developed , which preserves the extracellular matrix and might therefore be less painful. Although data for CRYO are still limited , uncontrolled studies suggest comparable safety and efficacy to RFA in eradicating limited BE areas. Therefore , secondary endpoints such as pain might become decisive for treatment selection. We aimed to compare efficacy and tolerability between focal CRYO and RFA. We identified BE patients undergoing focal ablation ( either RFA or CRYO) of all visible BE from our prospective cohort in 2 Dutch referral centers. After ablation , patients completed a 14-day digital diary to assess chest<symptom> pain<symptom> ( 0-10) , dysphagia<symptom> ( 0-4) , and analgesics use. A follow-up endoscopy was scheduled after 3 months to assess the BE surface regression ( blindly scored by 2 independent BE expert endoscopists). Outcomes were BE surface regression; 14-day cumulative scores ( area under the curves ( AUCs)) for pain , dysphagia<symptom> , analgesics , and peak pain. We identified 46 patients ( 20 CRYO , 26 RFA) with similar baseline characteristics. The BE regression was comparable ( 88 % vs 90 % , P = .62). AUCs for pain , dysphagia<symptom> , and analgesics were significantly smaller after CRYO versus RFA ( all P < .01). Peak pain was lower after CRYO ( visual analog scale 2 vs 4 , P < .01) , and the duration of pain was also shorter after CRYO ( 2 vs 4 days , P < .01). CRYO patients used analgesics for 2 days versus 4 days for RFA ( P < .01). In this multicenter , nonrandomized cohort study , we found no differences in efficacy after a single treatment with CRYO and RFA for short-segment BE. Patients reported less pain after CRYO as compared with RFA. Moreover , CRYO patients used fewer analgesics. Our results suggest a different pain course favoring CRYO over RFA , but a randomized trial is needed for definitive conclusions. ( Clinical trial registration number: NCT02249975.).