  Semi-volatile organic compounds ( SVOCs) are used extensively in consumer and personal care products; electronics; furniture; and building materials and are detected in most indoor environments. As a result , human exposure to mixtures of SVOCs is wide-spread. However , very few studies have measured biomarkers of exposure to multiple SVOC classes , and exposure determinants have not been thoroughly explored , particularly for young children. In this study , we investigated biomarkers of exposure to SVOCs among children ( age 3-6 years) , who may experience higher exposures and be more susceptible to adverse health outcomes than other age groups. We enrolled 203 participants in the Toddlers Exposure to SVOCs in Indoor Environments ( TESIE) study ( 181 provided urine samples and 90 provided serum samples). We quantified 44 biomarkers of exposure to phthalates , organophosphate esters ( OPEs) , parabens , phenols , antibacterial agents and per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs); we detected 29 of the 44 biomarkers in > 95 % of samples , and many biomarkers were detected at higher median concentrations than those previously reported in the U.S. general population. Demographic characteristics were associated with differences in concentrations. In general , non-Hispanic white race and higher maternal education were associated with lower concentrations , even after adjusting for other potential confounding variables. Our results suggest that outdoor temperature at the time of biospecimen collection may be a particularly important and under-evaluated predictor of biomarker concentrations; statistically significant relationships were observed between 10 biomarkers and outdoor temperature at the time of collection. A complex correlation structure was also observed among the biomarkers assessed. By and large , statistically significant correlations between biomarkers of exposure to phthalates , parabens , phenols , and OPEs were positive. Conversely , although PFASs were positively correlated with one another , they tended to be negatively correlated with other biomarkers where significant associations were observed. Taken together , our results provide evidence that the assessments of SVOC-associated health impacts should focus on chemical mixtures.