  Most maternal caregiving behaviors change across lactation to match the developmental needs of the continuously aging offspring. However , it is mostly unknown whether the dams ' postpartum stage or litter age is the primary driving force of these changes. In this study , postnatal day 1 and 8 litters were cross-fostered or in-fostered to postpartum day 1 or 8 dams. Five days later , undisturbed observations of maternal caregiving behaviors were performed on the subsequent two days. We found a main effect of dams ' postpartum stage on the frequency that mothers spent with the pups and displayed erect postures<symptom> over them ( hovering over and kyphosis) , although it was mostly driven by an interaction between postpartum stage and litter age: early-postpartum dams were in contact with younger litters and in erect postures<symptom> more often with younger litters compared to later-postpartum dams with younger litters. Additionally , there was an interaction between postpartum stage and litter age on the litter weights because older litters living with later-postpartum dams were heavier than older litters living with early-postpartum dams. There was also an interaction between postpartum stage and litter age on the dams ' bodyweight , with early-postpartum dams living with younger litters weighing the least and later-postpartum dams living with younger litters weighing the most. Because activity of the neuropeptide , orexin , within the medial preoptic area ( mPOA) has been implicated in maternal nursing and other caregiving behaviors , we measured mPOA levels of orexin-A but it was not affected by postpartum stage or litter age ( nor was there an interaction). However , high orexin-A was negatively associated with the frequency of contact with pups and the display of erect postures<symptom>. These results indicate that changes in caregiving across lactation are driven by endogenous factors in the dams , age-related cues they receive from offspring , and interactions between these factors.