  To compare pulmonary artery catheter ( PAC) placement by transesophageal echocardiography combined with pressure waveform transduction versus the traditional technique of pressure waveform transduction alone. A prospective , randomized trial. Single university hospital. Forty-eight patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension ( CTEPH) scheduled for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. PACs were placed in 48 patients with CTEPH scheduled for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy by either a combined approach ( eg , transesophageal echocardiography ( TEE) and pressure waveform transduction) or by pressure waveform transduction alone. Successful placement of the PAC via a combined technique or pressure waveform transduction alone was timed , number of attempts recorded , and final location noted. The final location of the pressure waveform-guided catheters was the proximal right pulmonary artery in 6 of 24 cases ( 25 %) , whereas the combined method resulted in successful placement in the proximal right pulmonary artery in 24 of 24 cases ( 100 %). The pressure waveform technique resulted in a mean time to placement and mean number of attempts of 74 seconds and 1.70 attempts , respectively. The combined approach resulted in a mean time to placement and mean number of attempts of 89 seconds and 1.79 attempts , respectively. The combined method resulted in placement in the proximal right pulmonary artery significantly more often than the pressure-only method but did not reduce significantly the number of attempts or time required to place the catheter successfully. Additionally , among those cases that required more than 1 attempt or manipulation , there was no difference in the time to successful placement or the number of attempts required for successful placement. TEE guidance during PAC insertion was hypothesized to result in a higher success rate , precise placement , and shorter times to placement. One hundred percent of the PACs inserted with TEE guidance were positioned successfully in the proximal right pulmonary artery , which is the institutional preference. Although the combined technique resulted in greater precision , the clinical significance of this is unknown. The time to placement benefit was not confirmed by this study.