  Laparoscopic surgery has proven safe and effective in the treatment of large hiatus hernia. Differences may exist between objectively assessed surgical outcomes , symptomatic scores , and patient-reported outcomes. An observational , single-arm cohort study was conducted in patients undergoing primary laparoscopic repair with crura mesh augmentation and Toupet fundoplication for large ( > 50 % of intrathoracic stomach) type III-IV hiatus hernia. Data were extracted from hospital charts and a prospectively updated research database. The main study outcome was quality of life assessed by the Gastroesophageal reflux disease Health-Related Quality of Life ( GERD-HRQL) score and the Short-form 36 ( SF-36). Between 2013 and 2016 , 37 out of 49 operated patients completed the comprehensive quality-of-life evaluation at the 2-year follow-up. The GERD-HRQL score significantly decreased compared to baseline ( p < 0.001). All items of the SF-36 significantly improved compared to baseline ( p < 0.05). Both Physical and Mental Component Summary scores were significantly higher than preoperative scores , with a medium Cohen 's effect size ( -0.77 and 0.56 , respectively). At the 2-year follow-up , symptoms had disappeared in the majority of patients. The use of proton-pump inhibitors significantly decreased compared to baseline ( 13.5 vs. 86.4 % , p < 0.001). Also , the use of antidepressants and benzodiazepines significantly decreased after surgery ( 8.1 vs. 32.4 % , p < 0.001). The overall alimentary satisfaction score was > 8 in 92 % of patients. There were no safety issues related to the use of the absorbable synthetic mesh. The incidence of anatomical hernia recurrence was 5.4 % , but no patient with recurrent hernia required surgical revision. Laparoscopic repair of large hiatus hernia with mesh and partial fundoplication is associated with symptomatic relief , no side-effects , and a significant improvement in disease-specific and generic quality of life at 2-year follow-up.