  Lactobacillus<pathogen> acidophilus<pathogen> fermentation products have been used to improve the performance of nursery pigs. However , research on the influence of this supplement on health is lacking. This study was designed to determine if feeding a Lactobacillus<pathogen> acidophilus<pathogen> fermentation product to weaned pigs would reduce stress and acute phase responses ( APR) following a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS) challenge. Pigs ( n = 30; 6.4 ± 0.1 kg) were individually housed in stainless steel pens with ad libitum access to feed and water. Pigs were weighed upon arrival , assigned to one of three groups ( n = 10/treatment) , and fed for 18 days: ( 1) Control , fed a non-medicated starter diet; ( 2) Control diet with the inclusion of a Lactobacillus<pathogen> acidophilus<pathogen> fermentation product at 1 kg/metric ton ( SGX1) and ( 3) Control diet with the inclusion of a Lactobacillus<pathogen> acidophilus<pathogen> fermentation product at 2 kg/metric ton ( SGX2). On day 7 pigs were anesthetized for insertion of an i.p. temperature device , and similarly on day 14 for insertion of a jugular catheter. Pigs were challenged i.v. with LPS ( 25 µg/kg BW) on day 15. Blood samples were collected at 0.5 h ( serum) and 1 h ( complete blood cell counts) intervals from -2 to 8 h and at 24 h relative to LPS administration at 0 h. Pigs and feeders were weighed on days 7 , 14 and 18. The supplemented pigs had increased BW and average daily gain before the challenge. In response to LPS , there was a greater increase in i.p. temperature in Control pigs compared with supplemented pigs. In addition , cortisol was reduced in SGX2 pigs while cortisol was elevated in SGX1 pigs at several time points post-challenge. White blood cells , neutrophils and lymphocytes were decreased in SGX1 and SGX2 compared with Control pigs. Furthermore , the pro-inflammatory cytokine response varied by treatment and dose of treatment. Specifically , serum TNF-α was greatest in SGX2 , intermediate in Control , and least in SGX1 pigs , while the magnitude and temporal pattern of IFN-γ in SGX2 pigs was delayed and reduced. In contrast , IL-6 concentrations were reduced in both SGX treatment groups compared with Control pigs. These data demonstrate that different supplementation feed inclusion rates produced differential responses , and that feeding SynGenX to weaned pigs attenuated the APR to an LPS challenge.