  Rheumatoid arthritis<disease> ( RA) is characterized by anti-citrullinated protein antibodies ( ACPAs) , nevertheless , the origin , specificity , and functional properties of ACPAs remain poorly understood. To characterize the evolution of ACPAs , we sequenced the plasmablast antibody repertoire at serial timepoints in subjects with established RA. Blood samples were obtained at up to four timepoints from eight anti-CCP + individuals with established RA. We single-cell sorted CD19 + CD3-IgD-CD14-CD20-CD27 + CD38 + + plasmablasts and co-stained with citrullinated-peptide tetramers to identify ACPA-expressing plasmablasts. Cell-specific oligonucleotide barcodes were utilized followed by large-scale sequencing and bioinformatic analysis to obtain error-corrected , paired , heavy and light chain antibody gene sequences for each B cell. Bioinformatic analysis revealed 170 persistent plasmablast lineages of which 19 % included multiple isotypes. Among IgG- and IgA-expressing plasmablasts , we observed significantly more IgA-expressing persistent lineages compared to IgG ( P < 0.01). We identified shared CDR3 sequence motifs across subjects. A subset of lineages comprised of later-timepoint derived members with divergent somatic hypermutations encoded antibodies that bind an expanded set of citrullinated antigens. Further , these recombinant , differentially mutated plasmablast antibodies formed immune complexes that stimulated higher levels of macrophage TNF-α production compared to antibodies representing earlier-timepoint , less-mutated lineage members. Our findings demonstrate that established RA is characterized by a persistent IgA ACPA response that exhibits ongoing affinity maturation. This observation suggests the presence of a persistent mucosal antigen that continually promotes the production of IgA plasmablasts , and their affinity maturation and epitope spreading to generate ACPAs that bind additional citrullinated antigens and more potently stimulate macrophage TNF-α production. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.