  In this conceptual contribution , thin functional coatings consisting of either pure polyelectrolytes ( PELs) or complexes between oppositely charged PELs at model and applied substrates are outlined. Latter PEL/PEL complexes were deposited by two concepts. In a first well-known concept , PEL multilayers ( PEM) were consecutively deposited according to the layer-by-layer ( LbL) technique. In a second less known concept , PEL complex ( PEC) nanoparticles ( NPs) preformed by mixing polycation ( PC) and polyanion ( PA) solutions were deposited in one step. Both concepts based on binary oppositely charged PELs are compared to one based on a single polycation system. Examples shall be given on adhesiveness , nanostructure , and biomedical applications of PEM and PEC NP coatings. In situ attenuated total reflection ( ATR) infrared ( IR) spectroscopy , circular dichroism ( CD) , and scanning force microscopy ( SFM) were used for molecular , optical , and microscopic characterization. At first , results on the adsorbed amount and wet adhesiveness of pure ( single-component) PEL coatings as a function of charge density are given to motivate coatings of mixed oppositely charged PELs. Second , the wet adhesiveness of PEM and PEC NP coatings of identical PEL compounds in aqueous media varying the molar charge ratio ( n-/ n +) and the deposition step z , respectively , is compared. Upon comparing the three PEL deposition concepts , it is suggested that the lack or absence of excess charge at the PEL/surface interface is one of the main factors for the wet adhesiveness of all pure PEL , PEM , and PEC NP coatings. Finally , the potential of PEM and PEC NP coatings for biomedical applications is outlined. Concerning biopassivation , PEM coatings excessed or terminated by PA repel proteins with low isoelectric points. Concerning bioactivation , PEM coatings loaded with antibiotics as well as PEC NP coatings loaded with therapeutic bisphosphonates showed retarded , optionally temperature responsive drug release for applications in acute surgery and bone healing , and immunoglobulin/PEL complex coatings might open theranostic applications.