  In 2007 , the Biotic Ligand Model ( BLM) became the basis for the US Environmental Protection Agency ( USEPA) freshwater water quality criteria ( WQC) for Cu. Applying the BLM typically results in time-variable WQC , which are not unique to the BLM; they result from any criteria approach that depends on water chemistry ( e.g. , ammonia<pathogen> criteria or hardness-based equations for metals). However , widespread use of the BLM has renewed interest in developing an approach that considers variability when setting permit limits or benchmarks. To aid in establishing these benchmarks , we developed a fixed monitoring benchmark ( FMB) approach: a probability-based method that incorporates time variability in BLM-predicted instantaneous water quality criteria ( IWQC) and instream Cu concentrations. The FMB approach provides benchmarks that can be used to simplify implementation of time-variable WQC. Although it appears reasonable to apply this approach to derive a site-specific regulatory limit , the FMB does not technically represent a limit above which aquatic effects are expected. Rather , it represents a fixed concentration intended to yield the same level of protection as time-variable IWQC , which rely upon toxic unit ( TU) distribution; each TU is calculated for a single sample using the Cu concentration and IWQC for this sample. The distribution of TUs for a particular site is used to estimate the probability that instream Cu concentrations are below associated IWQC. Our results suggest that Cu variability and corresponding IWQC , and their degree of correlation , indicate the magnitude of the FMB relative to the IWQC distribution. The FMB approach determines a maximum Cu distribution such that the resulting WQC exceedance frequency is consistent with the level of protection that is intended for the applicable water quality standard ( WQS). This approach makes use of time-variable BLM-based WQC in regulatory contexts wherein a single benchmark is consistent with past practices and established implementation methods. Integr Environ Assess Manag 2018; 00:000-000. © 2018 SETAC.