  We aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of amalgam alternatives-namely , incrementally placed composites ( IComp) , composites placed in bulk ( BComp) , and glass ionomer cements ( GIC). In a sensitivity analysis , we also included composite inlays ( CompI) and incrementally placed bulk-fills ( IBComp). Moreover , the value of information ( VOI) regarding the effectiveness of all strategies was determined. A mixed public-private-payer perspective in the context of Germany was adopted. Bayesian network meta-analyses were performed to yield effectiveness estimates ( relative risk ( RR) of failure). A 3-surfaced restoration on a permanent molar in initially 30-y-old patients was followed over patients ' lifetime using a Markov model. Restorative and endodontic complications were modeled; our outcome parameter was the years of tooth retention. Costs were derived from insurance fee items. Monte Carlo microsimulations were used to estimate cost-effectiveness , cost-effectiveness acceptability , and VOI. Initially , BComp/GIC were less costly ( 110.11 euros) than IComp ( 146.82 euros) but also more prone to failures ( RRs ( 95 % credible intervals ( CrI)) were 1.6 ( 0.8 to 3.4) for BComp and 1.3 ( 0.5 to 5.6) for GIC). When following patients over their lifetime , IComp was most effective ( mean ( SD) , 41.9 ( 1) years) and least costly ( 2,076 ( 135) euros) , hence dominating both BComp ( 40.5 ( 1) years; 2,284 ( 126) euros) and GIC ( 41.2 years; 2,177 ( 126) euros) in 90 % of simulations. Eliminating the uncertainty around the effectiveness of the strategies was worth 3.99 euros per restoration , translating into annual economic savings of 87.8 million euros for payers. Including CompI and IBComp into our analyses had only a minimal impact , and our findings were robust in further sensitivity analyses. In conclusion , the initial savings by BComp/GIC compared with IComp are very likely to be compensated by the higher risk of failures and costs for retreatments. CompI and IBComp do not seem cost-effective. All alternatives are likely to be inferior to amalgam. The VOI was considerable , and future studies may yield significant economic benefits.