  To clarify our understanding of how the culture of residency training influences the well-being of residents , this study reports on the vitality of residents at 34 programs across the United States and identifies characteristics of the programs , institutions and residents that are associated with high resident vitality. In 2014 to 2015 , residents nationally were surveyed using the validated C- Change Resident Survey. The survey assessed residents ' vitality and 12 other dimensions that characterize residents ' perspectives of the culture of the residency training programs: Self-efficacy , Institutional/program support , Relationships/inclusion/trust , Values alignment , Ethical/moral distress , Respect , Leadership aspirations , Mentoring , Work-life integration , Gender equity , Racial/ethnic minority equity , and self-assessed Competencies. Multilevel models were used to assess vitality within and across programs , and examine predictors including resident , program , and institution characteristics. Two thousand four hundred and fifty-two residents from 11 General Surgery , 12 Internal Medicine , and 11 Pediatrics programs at 14 U.S. academic health systems. One thousand seven hundred and eight residents responded ( 70 % response rate). The mean Vitality score was 3.6 ( range 1-5 , where values of 4-5 represent high Vitality). There was wide variation among the 34 programs in the percent of residents who had high Vitality scores , ranging from 17 % to 71 %. However , the average Vitality scores within specialty ( Surgery , Medicine , and Pediatrics) were not significantly different. The strongest predictors of Vitality were Work-life integration , Relationships/inclusion/trust , Institutional/program support , Res? > pect , Values alignment , and Ethical/moral distress , which together accounted for 50 % of vitality variance. Individual demographics accounted for just 3 % of variance. Vitality is an essential component of resident well-being , and within each specialty there are programs that have excelled in promoting a culture of high vitality. Our findings suggest that we should test interventions to enhance resident vitality by focusing greater attention on providing institutional support , aligning individual and institutional values , integrating work and personal life , and facilitating relationships , inclusiveness and trust.