  Are additional weekend allied health services effective and cost-effective for acute general medical and surgical wards , and subacute rehabilitation hospital wards? Systematic review and meta-analysis of studies published between January 2000 and May 2017. Two reviewers independently screened studies for inclusion , extracted data , and assessed methodological quality. Meta-analyses were conducted for relative measures of effect estimates. Patients admitted to acute general medical and surgical wards , and subacute rehabilitation wards. All services delivered by allied health professionals during weekends ( Saturday and/or Sunday). This study limited allied health professions to: occupational therapy , physiotherapy , social work , speech pathology , dietetics , art therapy , chiropractic , exercise physiology , music therapy , oral health ( not dentistry) , osteopathy , podiatry , psychology , and allied health assistants. Hospital length of stay , hospital re-admission , adverse events , discharge destination , functional independence , health-related quality of life , and cost of hospital care. Nineteen articles ( 20 studies) were identified , comprising 10 randomised and 10 non-randomised trials. Physiotherapy was the most commonly investigated profession. A meta-analysis of randomised , controlled trials showed that providing additional weekend allied health services in subacute rehabilitation wards reduced hospital length of stay by 2.35 days ( 95 % CI 0.45 to 4.24 , I The benefit of providing additional allied health services is clearer in subacute rehabilitation settings than for acute general medical and surgical wards in hospitals. PROSPERO CRD76771. ( Sarkies MN , White J , Henderson K , Haas R , Bowles J , Evidence Translation in Allied Health ( EviTAH) Group ( 2018) Additional weekend allied health services reduce length of stay in subacute rehabilitation wards but their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness are unclear in acute general medical and surgical hospital wards: a systematic review. Journal of Physiotherapy 64: 142-158).