  For over 40 years , habitat corridors have been a solution for sustaining wildlife in fragmented landscapes , and now are often suggested as a climate adaptation strategy. However , while a plethora of connectivity plans exist , protecting and restoring habitat connectivity through on-the-ground action has been slow. We identified implementation challenges and opportunities through a literature review of project implementation , a science-practice workshop , and interviews with conservation professionals. Our research indicates that connectivity challenges and solutions tend to be context-specific , dependent on land ownership patterns , socioeconomic factors , and the policy framework. We found evidence that developing and promoting a common vision shared by a diverse set of stakeholders including nontraditional conservation actors , such as water districts and recreation departments , and through communication among and between partners and the public is key to successful implementation. Other factors that lead to successful implementation include undertaking empirical studies to prioritize and validate corridors and the identification of related co-benefits of corridor projects. Engaging partners involved in land management and planning , such as non-governmental conservation organizations , public agencies , and private landowners is critical to effective strategy implementation. A clear regulatory framework including unambiguous connectivity conservation mandates would increase public resource allocation , and incentive programs are needed to promote private sector engagement. We argue that connectivity conservation must more rapidly move from planning to implementation and provide an evidence-based solution made up of key elements for successful on-the-ground connectivity implementation. The components of this new framework constitute the social processes necessary to advance habitat connectivity for biodiversity conservation and resilient landscapes under climate change. Three case studies serve to illustrate the application of the framework. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.