  WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental health nurses are affected by interpersonal , practice-related and organizational factors that can increase workplace stress and reduce their physical and mental health and well-being. Resilience programmes are a strength-based preventative approach to supporting individuals to overcome workplace adversities. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This qualitative inquiry is the first study to report mental health nurses ' perspectives and experiences on a workplace resilience programme. Strengthening mental health nurses ' resilience through a resilience programme involved a process of understanding resilience , and applying resilience strategies such as positive self-talk , managing negative self-talk , detaching from stressful situations , being aware of and managing emotions , and showing more empathy , to address workplace challenges. To address the range of resources needed to support mental health nurses ' resilience , a social-ecological approach to workplace resilience can be used to promote resource provision at individual , work unit , organizational and professional levels. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Resilience programmes are one resource for addressing the impacts of workplace stressors on mental health nurses. Organizational barriers and risks to staff well-being need to also be addressed to build a resilient workforce. Incorporating resilience strategies into clinical supervision or reflective practice models may help sustain beneficial outcomes following a resilience programme and support resilient practice. Introduction Mental health settings are potentially high-stress workplaces that can lead to nurses ' poorer health and well-being. Resilience programmes are a strengths-based preventative approach for promoting mental health and well-being in the face of adversity; however , there is no prior research on mental health nurses ' perspectives on resilience programmes. Aim To explore the perspectives of mental health nurses participating in a mental health service-initiated resilience programme ( Promoting Adult<disease> Resilience). Method An exploratory qualitative inquiry was undertaken. Multiple qualitative data: open-ended responses and semi-structured interviews and focus groups , were thematically analysed. Results Twenty-nine registered nurses from a metropolitan mental health service participated. Four main themes were as follows: being confronted by adversity; reinforcing understandings of resilience; strengthening resilience; and applying resilience skills at work. Discussion This is the first study to report mental health nurses ' perspectives on a resilience programme. Resilience programmes can help improve nurses ' self-efficacy and ability to realistically appraise stressful situations and to moderate their emotional responses to others. Implications for practice It is recommended resilience programmes are provided to promote nurses ' well-being and resilient practices. To build a resilient workforce , the wider barriers and risks to staff well-being need to be addressed at a unit , organizational and professional level.