  Although endocrine-disrupting chemicals ( EDCs , including pesticides) are thought to increase the risk of hypospadias , no compounds have been formally identified in this context. Human studies may now be possible via the assessment of meconium as a marker of chronic prenatal exposure. The objective of the present study was to determine whether or not prenatal exposure to pesticides ( as detected in meconium) constitutes a risk factor for isolated hypospadias. In a case-control study performed between 2011 and 2014 in northern France , male newborns with isolated hypospadias ( n = 25) were matched at birth with controls ( n = 58). Newborns with obvious genetic or hormonal anomalies , undescended testis , micropenis , a congenital syndrome<disease> or a family history of hypospadias were not included. Neonatal and parental data were collected. Foetal exposure was assessed by determining the meconium concentrations of the pesticides or metabolites ( organophosphates , carbamates , phenylurea , and phenoxyherbicides) most commonly used in the region. Risk factors were assessed in a multivariate analysis. The pesticides most commonly detected in meconium were organophosphates ( in up to 98.6 % of samples , depending on the substance) and phenylurea ( > 85.5 %). A multivariate analysis revealed an association between isolated hypospadias and the presence in meconium of the phenylurea herbicide isoproturon and of the phenoxyherbicide 2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid ( odds ratio ( 95 % confidence interval): 5.94 ( 1.03-34.11) and 4.75 ( 1.20-18.76)) respectively). We conclude that prenatal exposure to these two herbicides ( as assessed by meconium analysis) was correlated with the occurrence of isolated hypospadias. The results of our case-control study ( i) suggest that prenatal exposure to pesticides interferes with the development of the male genitalia , and ( ii) emphasize the importance of preventing pregnant women from being exposed to EDCs in general and pesticides in particular.