  To evaluate the feasibility of an innovative peer intervention promoting healthy eating and physical activity , which purposefully selected peer facilitators according to socioeconomic status to target less-advantaged overweight receivers. Nine high schools , two middle schools. One hundred and fifty-six adolescents were approached to become facilitators , of whom 18 were trained. Thirty-two of 56 potential receivers agreed to participate. The peer intervention was carried out in 2013-2014 and embedded in a larger trial: PRALIMAP-INÈS ( Promotion de l'ALIMentation et l'Activité Physique-INEgalité de Santé). Facilitanoators were selected and trained to organise weight-control activities with specific peer receivers participating in the programme. Different types of data were collected to assess demand , acceptability , implementation and practicality of the intervention. For the facilitators , this included 6 training sessions , 11 mid-programme interviews , 4 end-of-programme sessions , telephone notes and text message exchanges. All six potential receivers in one school were also interviewed. Sociodemographic and health characteristics were also analysed. Agreeing to participate was more likely when asked by a peer compared with a professional ( 51.2 % discordant pairs; p < 0.02). Twelve activities , mostly based on physical activity and implemented during weekends or holidays , were carried out. The mean age of active receivers was 16 and their body mass index was higher than other participants. For both facilitators and active receivers , there were more participating girls. Qualitative analysis reveals key implementation challenges for facilitators. Interviews with the receivers highlight social difficulties , with most feeling bad about their appearance and wanting to lose weight. Those who participated in peer activities were very positive about the experience especially social support. The present study suggests the peer intervention is feasible provided organisational difficulties are addressed. Good practice recommendations are formulated , including a longer training session , organising a joint meeting with the facilitators and receivers , matching dyads on place of residence and multiplying modes of contact. NCT01688453.