  In quantitative proteomics , mass tag labeling techniques have been widely adopted in mass spectrometry experiments. These techniques allow peptides ( short amino acid sequences) and proteins from multiple samples of a batch being detected and quantified in a single experiment , and as such greatly improve the efficiency of protein profiling. However , the batch-processing of samples also results in severe batch effects and non-ignorable missing data occurring at the batch level. Motivated by the breast cancer proteomic data from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium , in this work , we developed two tailored multivariate MIxed-effects SElection models ( mvMISE) to jointly analyze multiple correlated peptides/proteins in labeled proteomics data , considering the batch effects and the non-ignorable missingness. By taking a multivariate approach , we can borrow information across multiple peptides of the same protein or multiple proteins from the same biological pathway , and thus achieve better statistical efficiency and biological interpretation. These two different models account for different correlation structures among a group of peptides or proteins. Specifically , to model multiple peptides from the same protein , we employed a factor-analytic random effects structure to characterize the high and similar correlations among peptides. To model biological dependence among multiple proteins in a functional pathway , we introduced a graphical lasso penalty on the error precision matrix , and implemented an efficient algorithm based on the alternating direction method of multipliers. Simulations demonstrated the advantages of the proposed models. Applying the proposed methods to the motivating data set , we identified phosphoproteins and biological pathways that showed different activity patterns in triple negative breast tumors versus other breast tumors. The proposed methods can also be applied to other high-dimensional multivariate analyses based on clustered data with or without non-ignorable missingness.