  Tendinopathy , a painful condition that develops in response to tendon degeneration , is on the rise in the developed world due to increasing physical activity and longer life expectancy. Despite its increasing prevalence , the underlying pathogenesis still remains unclear , and treatment is generally symptomatic. Recently , numerous therapeutic options , including growth factors , stem cells , and gene therapy , were investigated in hopes of enhancing the healing potency of the degenerative tendon. However , the majority of these research studies were conducted only on animal models or healthy human tenocytes. Despite some studies using pathological tenocytes , to the best of our knowledge there is currently no protocol describing how to obtain human degenerative tenocytes. The aim of this study is to describe a standard protocol for acquiring human degenerative tenocytes. Initially , the tendon tissue was harvested from a patient with lateral epicondylitis during surgery. Then biopsy samples were taken from the extensor carpi radialis brevis tendon corresponding to structural changes observed at the time of surgery. All of the harvested tendons appeared to be dull , gray , friable , and edematous , which made them visually distinct from the healthy ones. Tenocytes were cultured and used for experiments. Meanwhile , half of the harvested tissues were analyzed histologically , and it was shown that they shared the same key features of tendinopathy ( angiofibroblastic dysplasia or hyperplasia<disease>). A secondary analysis by immunocytochemistry confirmed that the cultured cells were tenocytes with the majority of the cells having positive stains for mohawk and tenomodulin proteins. The qualities of the degenerative nature of tenocytes were then determined by comparing the cells with the healthy control using a proliferation assay or qRT-PCR. The degenerative tenocyte displayed a higher proliferation rate and similar gene expression patterns of tendinopathy that matched previous reports. Overall , this new protocol might provide a useful tool for future studies of tendinopathy.