  Considering the increasing number of elderly people , dementia has gained an important role in today 's society. Although the contributing factors for dementia have not been fully understood , chronic periodontitis<disease> ( CP) seems to have a possible link to dementia. To conduct a systematic review including meta-analysis in order to assess potential differences in clinical periodontal variables between patients with dementia and non-demented individuals. The following focused question was evaluated: is periodontitis<disease> associated with dementia? Electronic searches in two databases , MEDLINE and EMBASE , were conducted. Meta-analysis was performed with the collected data in order to find a statistically significant difference in clinical periodontal variables between the group of dementia and the cognitive normal controls. Forty-two articles remained for full text reading. Finally , seven articles met the inclusion criteria and only five studies provided data suitable for meta-analysis. Periodontal probing depth ( PPD) , bleeding on probing ( BOP) , gingival bleeding index ( GBI) , clinical attachment level ( CAL) , and plaque index ( PI) were included as periodontal variables in the meta-analysis. Each variable revealed a statistically significant difference between the groups. In an attempt to reveal an overall difference between the periodontal variables in dementia patients and non-demented individuals , the chosen variables were transformed into units that resulted in a statistically significant overall difference ( p < 0.00001). The current findings indicate that compared to systemically healthy individuals , demented patients show significantly worse clinical periodontal variables. However , further epidemiological studies including a high numbers of participants , the use of exact definitions both for dementia and chronic periodontitis<disease> and adjusted for cofounders is warranted. These findings appear to support the putative link between CP and dementia. Consequently , the need for periodontal screening and treatment of elderly demented people should be emphasized.