  To analyze the situation of physical fitness among Chinese Han students in 2014 , so as to develop the guideline of physical activity regarding to the targeted students and to provide bases for the improvements of students ' physical fitness. Subjects were from 2014 Chinese National Surveys on Students ' Constitution and Health ( CNSSCH). In this survey , 212 401 Han students aged 7-18 years participated and the measurement of physical fitness completed. The qualified rates of indicators regarding to physical fitness were evaluated based on `` National Students Constitutional Health Standards '' ( 2014 revised edition). Logistic regression was used to assess the association between the indicators of pull ups ( boys) and endurance run ( boys and girls) and influencing factors. In 2014 , among the boys , the qualified rates of pull ups and endurance run were 18.7 % and 76.6 % respectively , while the qualified rate of endurance run was 80.6 % among the girls. These two indicators were the weak items of physical fitness among the Chinese Han students. There was regional difference in the qualified rates of physical fitness , and the students in Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces had higher qualified rates. Logistic regression showed that the urban students ( OR = 0.67) , the students with malnutrition ( OR = 0.76) , overweight ( OR = 0.32) or obesity ( OR = 0.12) were less likely to be qualified to pull ups; the students who had physical activity more than 1 h per day ( OR = 1.31) was more likely to be qualified to pull ups. The influencing factors of endurance run showed the similar pattern , in addition , the students with enough physical education ( PE) were more likely to be qualified to endurance run , while the students with `` Squeeze '' or `` no '' PE class were less likely to be qualified to endurance run. The pull ups and endurance run have become the weak items of the physical fitness among primary and secondary school students in our national and provincial levels. Based on ensuring physical exercise time and PE curriculum and class hours , as well as improving students ' nutrition , we should also strengthen the rational design of physical exercise and ensure the balanced development of various items so as to improve the overall development of students ' physical fitness.