  There is growing interest in the endocrine treatment ( ET) of premenopausal women with hormone receptor positive ( HR +) metastatic breast cancer ( MBC). This review summarizes available data on endocrine therapy for this patient subset and aims to define the most appropriate treatment approach. The combination of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( LHRH) agonists plus tamoxifen seems effective and safe and is considered as being superior to either approach alone; still , single-agent therapy remains an acceptable treatment option. Due to their mechanism of action , aromatase inhibitors alone are not suitable for the treatment of premenopausal patients , but the combination with LHRH agonists may result in excellent disease control. Fulvestrant , in conjunction with LHRH agonists , also yields interesting results regarding clinical benefit rate and time to progression; currently , other orally available selective estrogen receptor downregulators are under clinical evaluation. Recently , targeted drugs have been added to ET in order to reverse endocrine resistance , but only limited information regarding their activity in premenopausal patients is available. The cyclin dependent kinase 4 and 6 inhibitor palbociclib when combined with fulvestrant and LHRH agonists was shown to prolong progression-free survival over endocrine therapy alone in pretreated patients; similar results were obtained with the addition of abemacicilib or ribociclib to endocrine therapy. Currently , activity of the mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor everolimus in combination with letrozole and goserelin is under assessment in premenopausal patients after progression on tamoxifen ( MIRACLE trial). This review provides clinicians with an overview on the available data regarding endocrine treatment of hormone receptor positive ( HR +) metastatic breast cancer ( MBC) in premenopausal women and summarizes the treatment options available in routine clinical practice. Knowledge of an up-to-date therapeutic approach in women with premenopausal HR + MBC will lead to better disease management , thereby improving disease control and quality of life while minimizing side effects.