  Adequate nutrition of calves is a fundamental requirement for efficient production in later life. Suboptimal nutrition before weaning could have detrimental long-term effects on metabolic health and could thereby decrease production efficiency. In this study , the metabolomic profiles of German Holstein calves reared on whole milk ad libitum ( n = 10) , milk replacer ad libitum ( n = 9) , and milk replacer in restricted amounts ( n = 9) were compared. Furthermore , this profiling approach was extended to the first lactation in the same animals for characterizing the long-term effect of quantitative and qualitative dietary manipulations affecting calves during development in a period that is sensitive to metabolic imprinting. Blood plasma samples were collected on d 3 , 22 , and 52 of life as well as during wk 4 before and wk 3 and 8 after the first calving. Samples were subjected to a targeted metabolomics analysis using the AbsoluteIDQ p180 kit of Biocrates Life Science AG ( Innsbruck , Austria). Profiling of metabolomics data was performed by principal component analysis and heatmap visualization of the metabolome , as well as by comparing fold changes and t-test statistics of metabolites. A quantitative identification of 180 plasma metabolites was possible , belonging to the metabolite classes of acyl-carnitines , AA , biogenic amines , phosphatidylcholines , lysophosphatidylcholines , sphingomyelins , and hexoses. Comparing metabolite concentrations between ad libitum-reared and restrictively reared animals revealed significant differences both during calfhood as well as during first lactation. Most dominantly , acylcarnitines of both short- and long-chain length were more abundant in ad libitum reared animals in the long-term , suggesting alterations in mitochondrial function , most likely indicating adaptive mechanisms of energy expenditure. Furthermore , plasma sphingomyelin concentrations were affected by ad libitum versus restricted milk replacer feeding , which can imply long-term modulatory mechanisms affecting insulin sensitivity. The functional characterization of the identified metabolic patterns , particularly the alterations of single lipid species , is required for further improving our understanding of the links between early nutrition shaping metabolic development and a healthy productive life of Holstein dairy cows.