  The purpose of this study was to conduct a scoping review of the literature and to categorically map a 15-year trajectory of US undergraduate medical education rationales for and approaches to expanding under-represented minority ( URM) physician representation in the medical workforce. Further aims were to comparatively examine related justifications and to consider international implications. From 1 June to 31 July 2015 , the authors searched the Cochrane Library , ERIC , PsycINFO , PubMed , Scopus , Web of Science and Google Scholar for articles published between 2000 and 2015 reporting rationales for and approaches to increasing the numbers of members of URMs in undergraduate medical school. A total of 137 articles were included in the scoping review. Of these , 114 ( 83 %) mentioned workforce diversity and 73 ( 53 %) mentioned concordance. The patient-physician relationship ( n = 52 , 38 %) and service commitment ( n = 52 , 38 %) were the most commonly cited rationales. The most frequently mentioned approaches to increasing minority representation were pipeline programmes ( n = 59 , 43 %) , changes in affirmative action laws ( n = 32 , 23 %) and changes in admission policies ( n = 29 , 21 %). This scoping review of the 2000-2015 literature on strategies for and approaches to expanding URM representation in medicine reveals a repetitive , amplifying message of URM physician service commitment to vulnerable populations in medically underserved communities. Such message repetition reinforces policies and practices that might limit the full scope of URM practice , research and leadership opportunities in medicine. Cross-nationally , service commitment and patient-physician concordance benefits admittedly respond to recognised societal need , yet there is an associated risk for instrumentally singling out members of URMs to fulfil that need. The proceedings of a 2001 US Institute of Medicine symposium warned against creating a deterministic expectation that URM physicians provide care to minority populations. Our findings suggest that the expanding emphasis on URM service commitment and patient-physician concordance benefits warrants ongoing scrutiny and , more broadly , represent a cautionary tale of unintended consequences for medical educators globally.