  Bai Xuan Xia Ta Re Pian ( BXXTR) is a traditional Uighur medicine ancient prescription in China widely used in the treatment of psoriasis , presenting a high curative rate and few side effects. Given that the active constituents and action mechanism still remain unclear , the aim of this study is to explore the potential active constituents and mechanism of antipsoriasis of BXXTR. Psoriasis-like lesions<symptom> model in BALB/c mice was induced by Imiquimod ( IMQ) , including five treatment groups: control group , IMQ-treated group , IMQ-ACITRETIN group ( Positive control group) , IMQ-BXXTR low dose group , IMQ-BXXTR medium dose group and IMQ-BXXTR high dose group. The Psoriasis Area and Severity Index ( PASI) score , skin and ear thickness , and histologic section were collected. The differentially expressed genes were determined by using RNAseq technology and the relevant pathways were analyzed by KEGG database. The ELISA kit and western blot assays were used to detect the related protein expression levels. In addition , the chemical constituents of BXXTR were determined by UPLC-TOF-MS analysis and the potential active constituents were predicted by SEA DOCK and Gene Ontology ( GO). The data demonstrated that BXXTR significantly alleviated IMQ-induced psoriasis. RNA-seq analysis showed that BXXTR induced the expression levels of 31 genes; the KEGG analysis suggested that BXXTR could significantly change IL-17-related inflammatory pathways. The ELISA kit confirmed that the expression level of IL-17A protein was significantly reduced. 75 compounds of BXXTR were determined by UPLC-TOF-MS analysis , 11 of 75 compounds were identified as potential active compounds by similarity ensemble approach docking ( SEA DOCK) and Gene Ontology ( GO). BXXTR reduced the severity of skin<symptom> lesions<symptom> by inhibiting IL-17-related inflammatory pathways. The results indicated that BXXTR could suppress psoriasis inflammation<symptom> by multiple-constituents-regulated multiple targets synergistically. Collectively , this study could provide important guidance for the elucidation of the active constituents and action mechanism of BXXTR for the treatment of psoriasis.