  The glucagon like peptide 1 ( GLP1) is produced by L cells in the intestine , and agonists of the GLP1 receptor are effective in treatment of diabetes. Levels of GLP1 increase with numbers of L cells. Agents that increase numbers of L cell might therefore be developed for treatment of diabetes. Ras homolog family member A ( RHOA) signaling via Rho associated coiled-coil containing protein kinases 1 and 2 ( ROCK1 , ROCK2) controls cell differentiation , but it is not clear if this pathway regulates enteroendocrine differentiation in the intestinal epithelium. We investigated the effects of Y-27632 , an inhibitor of ROCK1 and ROCK2 , on L-cell differentiation. We collected intestinal tissues from GLU-Venus , GPR41-RFP , and Neurog3-RFP mice , in which the endocrine lineage is fluorescently labelled , for in vitro culture and histologic analysis. Small intestine organoids derived from these mice were cultured with Y-27632 and we measured percentages of L cells , expression of intestinal cell-specific markers , and secretion of GLP1 into the medium. Mice were fed normal chow or high-fat diets and given Y-27632 or saline ( control) and blood samples were collected for measurement of GLP1 , insulin , and glucose. Incubation of intestinal organoids with Y-27632 increased numbers of L cells and secretion of GLP1. These increases were associated with upregulated expression of genes encoding intestinal hormones , neurogenin 3 , neurogenic differentiation factor 1 ( NeuroD1) , forkhead box A1 ( FOXA11) , and FOXA2 and additional markers of secretory cells. Mice fed normal chow diets and given Y-27632 had increased numbers of L cells in intestinal tissues , increased plasma levels of GLP1 and insulin , and lower blood levels of glucose , compared to mice fed normal chow diets and given saline. In mice with insulin resistance induced by a high-fat diet , administration of Y-27632 increased secretion of GLP1 and glucose tolerance , compared to administration of saline. In intestinal organoids and mice , an inhibitor of RHOA signaling increased differentiation of the secretory lineage and development of enteroendocrine cells. Inhibitors of RHOA signaling or other strategies to increase numbers of L cells might be developed for treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes or for increasing glucose tolerance.