  Tendon or ligament reconstructions often use autologous or allogenic tendons from either extrasynovial or intrasynovial sources. Allograft tendons must be lyophilized for preservation before transplantation , a process which can impact mechanical properties of the graft. Reconstituted graft properties that are similar to native tendon are desirable. Although tensile and compressive properties of tendons have been investigated , there is a paucity of information describing flexural properties of tendon , which can impact the gliding resistance. This study aims to design a testing method to quantify tendon flexural modulus , and investigate the effects of lyophilization/rehydration procedures on tendon flexibility. A total of 20 peroneus longus tendons ( extrasynovial) and 20 flexor digitorum profundus tendons ( intrasynovial) were collected. Ten of each tendon were processed with 5 freeze-thaw cycles followed by lyophilization and rehydration with saline solution ( 0.9 %). Bend testing was conducted on tendons to quantify the flexural modulus with and without processing. As canine FDP tendons contain fibrous and fibrocartilaginous tissue regions , the flexural moduli were measured in both regions. Flexural modulus of rehydrated , lyophilized extrasynovial PL tendon was significantly lower than that of similarly processed intrasynovial FDP tendon ( p < 0.001). Flexural moduli of both the fibrocartilaginous and non-fibrocartilaginous regions of intrasynovial tendon significantly increased after lyophilization ( p < 0.001). The flexural modulus of the fibrocartilaginous region was significantly higher than that of the non-fibrocartilaginous region in intrasynovial tendon ( p < 0.001). Lyophilization significantly increases the flexural modulus of extrasynovial and intrasynovial tendons , and flexural modulus differs significantly between these two tendon types. Increases in stiffness caused by lyophilization may impact the mechanical performance of the allograft in vivo.