  To put forth new findings of urologic oncology with impact on clinical practice presented during 2017 in the main annual meetings. This document reviews abstracts on prostate , kidney and bladder cancer presented at the congresses of 2016 ( EAU , AUA , ASCO , ESMO and ASTRO) and publications with the highest impact in this period valued with the highest scores by the OncoForum committee. Among patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma after nephrectomy , adjuvant sunitinib compared to placebo showed a benefit in patients at higher risk of recurrence. In cisplatin-ineligible advanced urothelial cancer , pembrolizumab elicits clinically meaningful , durable responses. Among patients with localized prostate cancer , treatment for disease progression was less frequent ( absolute difference , 26.2 percentage pontis) and adverse events was more frequent with surgery than with observation. Among patients with locally advanced or merastatic prostate cancer , androgen-deprivation therapy plus abiraterone and prednisolone resulted in fewer deaths and fewer treatment-failure events ( P < .001). Among patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer previously treated with abiraterone acetate , enzalutamide median radiographic progression free survival was 8,1 months and enzalutamide median overall survival was not reached. Among patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma after nephrectomy , adjuvant sunitinib showed a benefit across subgroups including patients at higher risk of recurrence. Among patients with localized prostate cancer , surgery was not associated with significantly lower all-cause or porstate-cancer mortality than observation. Among patients with locally advanced or merastatic prostate cancer , androgen-deprivation therapy plus abiraterone and prednisolone was associated with significantly higher rates of overall and failure-free survival than androgen-deprivation therapy alone. In patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer previously treated with abiraterone enzalutamide remained active.