  Purpose To update the formal expert consensus-based guideline recommendations for practicing oncologists and others on the management of brain metastases for patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive advanced breast cancer to 2018. Methods An Expert Panel conducted a targeted systematic literature review ( for both systemic treatment and CNS metastases) and identified 622 articles. Outcomes of interest included overall survival , progression-free survival , and adverse events. In 2014 , the American Society of Clinical Oncology ( ASCO) convened a panel of medical oncology , radiation oncology , guideline implementation , and advocacy experts , and conducted a systematic review of the literature. When that failed to yield sufficiently strong quality evidence , the Expert Panel undertook a formal expert consensus-based process to produce these recommendations. ASCO used a modified Delphi process. The panel members drafted recommendations , and a group of other experts joined them for two rounds of formal ratings of the recommendations. Results Of the 622 publications identified and reviewed , no additional evidence was identified that would warrant a change to the 2014 recommendations. Recommendations Patients with brain metastases should receive appropriate local therapy and systemic therapy , if indicated. Local therapies include surgery , whole-brain radiotherapy , and stereotactic radiosurgery. Treatments depend on factors such as patient prognosis , presence of symptoms , resectability , number and size of metastases , prior therapy , and whether metastases are diffuse. Other options include systemic therapy , best supportive care , enrollment in a clinical trial , and/or palliative care. Clinicians should not perform routine magnetic resonance imaging to screen for brain metastases , but rather should have a low threshold for magnetic resonance imaging of the brain because of the high incidence of brain metastases among patients with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. Additional information is available at www.asco.org/breast-cancer-guidelines.