  Experiences during anaesthetic-induced unresponsiveness have previously been investigated by interviews after recovery. To explore whether experiences occur during drug administration , we interviewed participants during target-controlled infusion ( TCI) of dexmedetomidine or propofol and after recovery. Healthy participants received dexmedetomidine ( n = 23) or propofol ( n = 24) in stepwise increments until loss of responsiveness ( LOR1). During TCI we attempted to arouse them for interview ( return of responsiveness , ROR1). After the interview , if unresponsiveness ensued with the same dose ( LOR2) , the procedure was repeated ( ROR2). Finally , the concentration was increased 1.5-fold to achieve presumable loss of consciousness<symptom> ( LOC) , infusion terminated , and the participants interviewed upon recovery ( ROR3). An emotional sound<symptom> stimulus was presented during LORs and LOC , and memory for stimuli was assessed with recognition task after recovery. Interview transcripts were content analysed. Of participants receiving dexmedetomidine , 18/23 were arousable from LOR1 and LOR2. Of participants receiving propofol , 10/24 were arousable from LOR1 and two of four were arousable from LOR2. Of 93 interviews performed , 84 % included experiences from periods of unresponsiveness ( dexmedetomidine 90 % , propofol 74 %). Internally generated experiences ( dreaming) were present in 86 % of reports from unresponsive periods , while externally generated experiences ( awareness) were rare and linked to brief arousals. No within drug differences in the prevalence or content of experiences during infusion vs after recovery were observed , but participants receiving dexmedetomidine reported dreaming and awareness more often. Participants receiving dexmedetomidine recognised the emotional sounds<symptom> better than participants receiving propofol ( 42 % vs 15 %) , but none reported references to sounds<symptom> spontaneously. Anaesthetic-induced unresponsiveness does not induce unconsciousness or necessarily even disconnectedness. NCT01889004.