  The bachelor thesis , a final year subject to obtain a nursing degree , presents an ideal opportunity for the development and assessment of professional competencies. Thus , it is necessary to specify that the structure of the bachelor thesis works as an element of review and reflection from both a pedagogical and professional perspective. To analyse the main elements of the bachelor thesis in the nursing degree 2015-16 in Spain. A transversal descriptive study was conducted using a quantitative documentary analysis via study guides or grade reports. The variables were the main academic elements of the bachelor thesis subject ( credits , competencies , learning outcomes , contents , methodologies , training activities and assessment). A probabilistic sample of 66 institutions was studied using descriptive statistics with statistical measures of central tendency and measures of variability. The results showed a maximum range of 12 and a minimum of 6 European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System. The definition and number of competencies to be developed varied and the learning outcomes were formulated in only 40.9 % of the guides consulted. The most widely used teaching methodologies and training activities were academic supervision ( 87.9 %) and autonomous work ( 80.3 %). Regarding types of work , basic investigation ( 34.8 %) , care plans ( 33.3 %) and literature review ( 30,3 %) ranked highest. No specific descriptors could be linked to the contents. Finally , two main assessment tools were found: process and product. The rubric is presented as a main element of the assessment. The bachelor thesis is conceived as autonomous , personal and original academic work. But no homogeneity was observed in the key development elements such as competencies , teaching strategies , or type of bachelor thesis. Therefore , the findings from the analysis and the bibliographic review are presented as recommendations as regards the outcome , structure and/or teaching elements linked to the bachelor thesis.