  Climate change and wildfire are interacting to drive vegetation change and potentially reduce water quantity and quality in the southwestern United States , Forest<disease> restoration is a management approach that could mitigate some of these negative outcomes. However , little information exists on how restoration combined with climate change might influence hydrology across large forest<disease> landscapes that incorporate multiple vegetation types and complex fire regimes. We combined spatially explicit vegetation and fire modeling with statistical water and sediment yield models for a large forested landscape ( 335,000 ha) on the Kaibab Plateau in northern Arizona , USA. Our objective was to assess the impacts of climate change and forest<disease> restoration on the future fire regime , forest<disease> vegetation , and watershed outputs. Our model results predict that the combination of climate change and high-severity fire will drive forest<disease> turnover , biomass declines , and compositional change in future forests. Restoration treatments may reduce the area burned in high-severity fires and reduce conversions from forested to non-forested conditions. Even though mid-elevation forests are the targets of restoration , the treatments are expected to delay the decline of high-elevation spruce-fir , aspen , and mixed conifer forests by reducing the occurrence of high-severity fires that may spread across ecoregions. We estimate that climate-induced vegetation changes will result in annual runoff declines of up to 10 % , while restoration reduced or reversed this decline. The hydrologic model suggests that mid-elevation forests , which are the targets of restoration treatments , provide around 80 % of runoff in this system and the conservation of mid- to high-elevation forests types provides the greatest benefit in terms of water conservation. We also predict that restoration treatments will conserve water quality by reducing patches of high-severity fire that are associated with high sediment yield. Restoration treatments are a management strategy that may reduce undesirable outcomes for multiple ecosystem services.