  Lumbar spinal canal stenosis surgery has recently improved with the use of minimally invasive techniques. Less invasive procedures have emerged , and microendoscopic decompression through smaller incisions is frequently performed. Tubular surgery with the assistance of endoscopic surgery procedures has led to particularly remarkable changes in surgery , with reduced tissue trauma and morbidity. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical outcomes of two different minimally invasive decompressive surgical techniques ( microendoscopic bilateral decompression surgery using the unilateral approach ( microendoscopic laminectomy ( MEL)) and microendoscopy-assisted muscle-preserving interlaminar decompression ( MILD ME-MILD)) using spinal endoscopy for lumbar spinal canal stenosis measured using a visual analog scale ( VAS) , the Japanese Orthopedic Association ( JOA) score , and the JOA Back<symptom> Pain<symptom> Evaluation Questionnaire ( JOABPEQ) , which is based on a patient-oriented scoring system. This study was a retrospective review of prospectively collected surgical data. The study included 81 patients ( MEL 39 patients , 20 men and 19 women , mean age 68.9 years; and ME-MILD 42 patients , 22 men and 20 women , mean age 73.1 years) with lumbar spinal stenosis ( LSS). The indications for surgery were moderate-to-severe stenosis , persistent neurological<symptom> symptoms<symptom> , and failure of conservative treatment over 3 months , with a JOA score under 15 points or intermittent claudication at 100 m. This study included patients having LSS at a single vertebral level ( L4/5). Low back pain , buttock-leg pain , and numbness were significantly improved in terms of the VAS score from 3 months with both MEL and ME-MILD. In all periods , JOA scores over 3 years of follow-up were significantly higher than those obtained before surgery with both MEL and ME-MILD , and there were improvements of low back pain and walking function. These observations demonstrate that ME-MILD is a safe and very effective minimally invasive technique for degenerative LSS , similar to MEL.