  Carbazoles decorated with both donor and acceptor fragments offer a classical way to optimize bipolar functional properties. In this work , a series of carbazoles featuring triphenylamine donors and cyano acceptors are synthesized and their structure-property relationship is studied. The effects of connectivity and the chromophore number density on photophysical and electroluminescence properties are investigated. The position of the triphenylamine donor on the 3,6-dicyanocarbazole nucleus significantly affected the photophysical and electroluminescence properties. The dye possessing triphenylamine on C2 and C7 displayed a red shift in absorption when compared with the structural analogue with triphenylamine tethered to C1 and C8. The emission wavelength of the dyes are tunable from blue to green , by altering the position of triphenylamine and cyano substituents. All of the dyes exhibited positive solvatochromism in emission , attributable to the photoinduced intramolecular charge transfer from the triphenylamine donor to the cyano acceptor. However , the extent of charge transfer and hybridization of local and charge-transfer-excited states is highly dependent on the position of triphenylamine and cyano groups on the carbazole nucleus. Dyes containing cyano substituents at C2 and C7 showed a prolonged excited state lifetime , broad emission , and large Stokes shifts , indicating the presence of a higher charge transfer component in the excited state. The dyes displayed exceptional thermal stability with the onset decomposition temperature ( 10 % weight<symptom> loss<symptom>) > 350 °C. Electrochemical measurements revealed low oxidation potential for dyes containing triphenylamine at C3 and/or C6. Addition of a cyano acceptor on carbazole led to the stabilization of lowest unoccupied molecular orbital. Furthermore , the materials were tested as emitting dopants in solution-processable multilayer organic light emitting diodes and found to display deep-blue/sky-blue electroluminescence with external quantum efficiency as high as 6.5 % for a deep-blue emitter ( CIE y ∼ 0.06).