  In this study , two kinds of sensitive biosensors based on a multipedal DNA walker along a three-dimensional DNA functional magnet particles track for the chemiluminescent detection of streptavidin ( SA) are constructed and compared. In the presence of SA , a multipedal DNA walker was constructed by a biotin-modified catalyst as a result of the terminal protection to avoid being digested by exonuclease I. Then , through a toehold-mediated strand exchange , a `` leg '' of a multipedal DNA walker interacted with a toehold of a catalyzed hairpin assembly ( CHA)- H1 coupled with magnetic microparticles ( MMPs) and opened its hairpin structure. The newly open stem in CHA-H1 was hybridized with a toehold of biotin-labeled H2. Via the strand displacement process , H2 displaced one `` leg '' of a multipedal DNA walker , and the other `` leg '' continued to interact with the neighboring H1 to initiate the next cycle. In order to solve the high background caused by the hybridization between CHA-H1 and H2 without a CHA-catalyst , the other model was designed. The principle of the other model ( isothermal strand-displacement polymerase reaction ( ISDPR)- DNA walker) was similar to that of the above one. After the terminal protection of SA , a `` leg '' of a multipedal DNA walker was triggered to open the hairpin of the ISDPR-H1 conjugated with MMPs. Then , the biotin-modified primer hybridized with the newly exposed DNA segment , triggering the polymerization reaction with the assistance of dNTPs/polymerase. As for the extension of the primer , the `` leg '' of a multipedal DNA walker was displaced so that the other `` leg '' could trigger the proximal H1 to go onto the next cycle. Due to its lower background and stronger signal , a multipedal DNA walker based on an ISDPR had a lower limit of detection for SA. The limit of detection for SA was 6.5 pM , and for expanding the application of the method , the detections of the folate receptor and thrombin were explored. In addition , these DNA walker methods were applied in complex samples successfully.