  The purpose of this study was to assure a reliable and valid European Portuguese ( EP) version of Consensus Auditory-Perceptual Evaluation of Voice ( CAPE-V). This resulted in the second EP version of CAPE-V ( II EP CAPE-V) , with permission granted by American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. This is a transversal , observational , descriptive , and comparative study. Retranslation of CAPE-V into EP was reviewed by an EP linguistic expert for content validity. A total of 20 subjects: 10 male individuals ( mean age = 45) and 10 female individuals ( mean age = 43) formed a control group ( n = 10) and a dysphonic group ( n = 10) were matched by age and gender. All subjects ' CAPE-V phonatory tasks were captured with PEYLE PMENI ( China) microphone and recorded with TASCAM DR-05 ( Tokyo , Japan). Fourteen speech-language pathologists voice experts ( > 5 years of clinical practice) rated 26 voice samples with 6 repeated samples added for intrarater reliability. All voice samples were heard using AKG K101 ( Europe) headphones and were rated in two sessions with a 1-week interval: one with the II EP CAPE-V; and the second with the GRBAS scale to establish for inter-rater reliability and construct and concurrent validity. Statistical analysis for inter-rater reliability was obtained with the intraclass correlation coefficient. Intrarater reliability was obtained with Pearson correlation. Construct and concurrent validity were performed with Student t test and multiserial correlation coefficient , respectively. SPSS 22.0 ( IBM Corp , Armonk , NY) and LISREL 8.8 ( Scientific Software International , Inc , Chicago , IL) were used with significance level cut-off points: r > 0.70 and α = 0.05. High inter-rater reliability was obtained for all vocal parameters ( intraclass correlation coefficient > 0.84) revealing good equivalence. Intrarater reliability was high ( r > 0.87) for overall severity , breathiness , and pitch; good ( r = 0.73) for strain; and moderate ( r > 0.61) for roughness and loudness. These results revealed good reproducibility and stability of the II EP CAPE-V over time. Content validity was assured by an EP linguistic expert. Construct validity was obtained for all vocal parameters ( P < 0.05) , except for strain ( P = 0.52) , revealing these were the salient parameters for rating normal and dysphonic voices samples. Concurrent validity between the II EP CAPE-V and the GRBAS scales had strong correlations ( r > 0.89) for overall severity/grade , roughness , and breathiness parameters , suggesting both instruments measure the same construct. The II EP CAPE-V is a reliable and valid instrument for auditory-perceptual evaluation of the EP population , with all psychometric measures assured.