  Methamphetamine ( Meth) is a widely abused psychoactive drug that primarily damages the nervous system , notably causing dopaminergic neuronal apoptosis. CCAAT-enhancer binding protein ( C/EBPβ) is a transcription factor and an important regulator of cell apoptosis and autophagy. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein ( IGFBP5) is a proapoptotic factor that mediates Meth-induced neuronal apoptosis , and Trib3 ( tribbles pseudokinase 3) is an endoplasmic reticulum ( ER) stress-inducible gene involved in autophagic cell death through the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR) signaling pathway. To test the hypothesis that C/EBPβ is involved in Meth-induced IGFBP5-mediated neuronal apoptosis and Trib3-mediated neuronal autophagy , we measured the protein expression of C/EBPβ after Meth exposure and evaluated the effects of silencing C/EBPβ , IGFBP5 , or Trib3 on Meth-induced apoptosis and autophagy in neuronal cells and in the rat striatum<pathogen> after intrastriatal Meth injection. We found that , at relatively high doses , Meth exposure increased C/EBPβ protein expression , which was accompanied by increased neuronal apoptosis and autophagy; triggered the IGFBP5-mediated , p53-up-regulated modulator of apoptosis ( PUMA)- related mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathway; and stimulated the Trib3-mediated ER stress signaling pathway through the Akt-mTOR signaling axis. We also found that autophagy is an early response to Meth-induced stress upstream of apoptosis and plays a detrimental role in Meth-induced neuronal cell death. These results suggest that Meth exposure induces C/EBPβ expression , which plays an essential role in the neuronal apoptosis and autophagy induced by relatively high doses of Meth; however , relatively low concentrations of Meth did not change the expression of C/EBPβ in vitro. Further studies are needed to elucidate the role of C/EBPβ in low-dose Meth-induced neurotoxicity.-Xu , X. , Huang , E. , Luo , B. , Cai , D. , Zhao , X. , Luo , Q. , Jin , Y. , Chen , L. , Wang , Q. , Liu , C. , Lin , Z. , Xie , W.-B. , Wang , H. Methamphetamine exposure triggers apoptosis and autophagy in neuronal cells by activating the C/EBPβ-related signaling pathway.