  Bioactive functional scaffolds are essential for support of cell-based strategies to improve bone regeneration. Adipose-tissue-derived-stromal cells ( ASC) are more accessible multipotent cells with faster proliferation than bone-marrow-derived-stromal-cells ( BMSC) having potential to replace BMSC for therapeutic stimulation of bone-defect healing. Their osteogenic potential is , however , lower compared to BMSC , a deficit that may be overcome in growth factor-rich orthotopic bone defects with enhanced bone-conductive scaffolds. Objective of this study was to compare the therapeutic potency of human ASC and BMSC for bone regeneration on a novel nanoparticulate β-TCP/collagen-carrier ( β-TNC). Cytotoxicity of β-TCP nanoparticles and multilineage differentiation of cells were characterized in vitro. Cell-seeded β-TNC versus cell-free controls were implanted into 4 mm calvarial bone-defects in immunodeficient mice and bone healing was quantified by µCT at 4 and 8 weeks. Tissue-quality and cell-origin were assessed by histology. β-TNC was non-toxic , radiolucent and biocompatible , lent excellent support for human cell persistence and allowed formation of human bone tissue by BMSC but not ASC. Opposite to BMSC , ASC-grafting significantly inhibited calvarial bone healing compared to controls. Bone formation progressed significantly from 4 to 8 weeks only in BMSC and controls yielding 5.6-fold more mineralized tissue in BMSC versus ASC-treated defects. Conclusively , β-TNC was simple to generate , biocompatible , osteoconductive , and stimulated osteogenicity of BMSC to enhance calvarial defect healing while ASC had negative effects. Thus , an orthotopic environment and β-TNC could not compensate for cell-autonomous deficits of ASC which should systematically be considered when choosing the right cell source for tissue engineering-based stimulation of bone regeneration. Bone-marrow-derived-stromal cells ( BMSC) implanted on bone replacement materials can support bone defect healing and adipose-tissue-derived-stromal cells ( ASC) being more accessible and better proliferating are considered as alternate source. This first standardized comparison of the bone regeneration potency of human ASC and BMSC was performed on a novel nanoparticular β-TCP-enriched collagen-carrier ( β-TNC) designed to overcome the known inferior osteogenicity of ASC. β-TNC was non-toxic , biocompatible and osteoconductive supporting human bone formation and defect-closure by BMSC but not ASC. Long-term cell-persistence and the distinct secretome of ASC appear as main reasons why ASC inhibited bone healing opposite to BMSC. Overall , ASC-grafting is at considerable risk of producing negative effects on bone-healing while no such risks are known for BMSC.