  Phytochrome proteins translate light into biochemical signals in plants , fungi<pathogen> and microorganisms. Light cues are absorbed by a bilin chromophore , leading to an isomerization and a rotation of the D-ring. This relays the signal to the protein matrix. A set of amino acids , which is conserved across the phytochrome superfamily , holds the chromophore in the binding pocket. However , the functional role of many of these amino acids is not yet understood. Here , we investigate the hydrogen bonding network which surrounds the D-ring of the chromophore in the resting ( Pr) state. We use UV/vis spectroscopy , infrared absorption spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography to compare the photosensory domains from Deinococcus radiodurans , the phytochrome 1 from Stigmatella aurantiaca , and a D. radiodurans H290T mutant. In the latter two , an otherwise conserved histidine next to the D-ring is replaced by a threonine. Our infrared absorption data indicate that the carbonyl of the D-ring is more strongly coordinated by hydrogen bonds when the histidine is missing. This is in apparent contrast with the crystal structure of the PAS-GAF domain of phytochrome 1 from S. aurantiaca ( pdb code 4RPW) , which did not resolve any obvious binding partners for the D-ring carbonyl. We present a new crystal structure of the H290T mutant of the PAS-GAF from D. radiodurans phytochrome. The 1.4 Å-resolution structure reveals additional water molecules , which fill the void created by the mutation. Two of the waters are significantly disordered , suggesting that flexibility might be important for the photoconversion. Finally , we report a spectral analysis which quantitatively explains why the histidine-less phytochromes do not reach equal Pfr-type absorption in the photoequilibrium compared to the Deinococcus radiodurans wild-type protein. The study highlights the importance of water molecules and the hydrogen bonding network around the chromophore for controlling the isomerization reaction and spectral properties of phytochromes.