  To provide autonomy support from three dimensions based on self-determination theory ( SDT) , i.e. professional support , peer support , family support , and to investigate whether this intervention can improve diabetes self-management behavior and glycemic control of diabetic patients , and to analyze the influencing factors of the effect. Using convenient sampling method , three communities were selected respectively in Beijing. Each community selected health service stations with similar conditions as different intervention groups. The diabetic patients managed by the station who were eligible for inclusion were recruited into this intervention group. The community stations were divided into three groups. The routine intervention group only issued knowledge manuals and conducted health management according to the requirements of basic public health services. Peer support groups were divided into small groups and carried out doctor-led group activities. Based on doctor-led peer support activities , the doctors and peers were trained to provide autonomy support based on self-determination theory , and their family members were trained in the form of manuals to provide autonomy support , forming a concerted support of the three dimensions. Activity processes and materials were also designed based on SDT. The intervention duration was 3 months , and the main evaluation indexes were HbA1c and patients ' self-management behaviors , skills , knowledge , and self-efficacy scores. Before and after the intervention , the HbA1c of routine intervention group were 7.40 % ± 1.37 % , 7.30 % ± 1.18 %. The HbA1c of peer support group before and after the intervention were 7.33 % ± 1.15 % and 7.13 % ± 1.27 %. The HbA1c of autonomy support group before and after the intervention were 7.42 % ± 1.22 % and 6.78 % ± 0.80 %. Before and after the intervention , the self-management score in routine intervention group was 10.54 ± 2.28 and 10.80 ± 2.15 , the score in peer support group was 11.09 ± 1.89 and 11.40 ± 1.78 , the score in autonomy support group was 10.34 ± 1.99 and 11.10 ± 1.65 , respectively. The HbA1c and self-management score increased higher in autonomy support group than in the other two groups. After intervention , the control rate in autonomy support group was higher than in the other two groups. According to the multi-factor analysis , the value of HbA1c after intervention was positively related to the baseline HbA1c , and negatively related to self-management behavior. The value in autonomy support group was higher than in routine intervention group. Baseline self-management behavior , self-efficacy , knowledge , skill , family support , autonomy support , peer support and age were positively correlated with the change of behavior. self-management behavior intervention based on self-determination theory can effectively promote self-management behavior and glycemic control of diabetic patients , and the effect is better than single peer support activities.