  Establishment of European eel ( Anguilla anguilla) hatchery production will rely on selectively bred individuals that produce progeny with the best traits in successive generations. As such , this study used a quantitative genetic breeding design , between four females and nine males ( four wild-caught and five cultured) , to investigate the effect of paternal origin ( wild-caught vs. cultured) and quantify the relative importance of parental effects , including genetic compatibility , on early life history ( ELH) performance traits ( i.e. fertilization success , embryonic survival at 32 hr post-fertilization , hatch success and larval deformities at 2 days post-hatch) of European eel. Wild-caught males had higher ( 56 %) spermatocrit values than cultured males ( 45 %) , while fertilization success , embryonic survival , hatch success and larval deformities were not significantly impacted by paternal origin. This demonstrates that short-term domestication of male eels does not negatively affect offspring quality and enables the consideration of cultured male broodstock in future breeding programmes. Moreover , paternity significantly explained 9.5 % of the variability in embryonic survival , providing further evidence that paternal effects need to be taken into consideration in assisted reproduction protocols. Furthermore , maternity significantly explained 54.8 % of the variation for fertilization success , 61.7 % for embryonic survival , 88.1 % for hatching success and 62.8 % for larval deformities , validating that maternity is a major factor influencing these `` critical '' ELH traits. At last , the parental interaction explained 12.8 % of the variation for fertilization success , 8.3 % for embryonic survival , 4.5 % for hatch success and 20.5 % for larval deformities. Thus , we conclude that eggs of one female can develop more successfully when crossed with a compatible male , highlighting the importance of mate choice for successful propagation of high-quality offspring. Together , this knowledge will improve early offspring performance , leading to future breeding programmes for this critically endangered and economically important species.