  Carbohydrate-active enzymes ( CAZymes) have significant biotechnological potential as agents for degradation or modification of polysaccharides/glycans. As marine macroalgae are known to be rich in various types of polysaccharides , seaweed-associated bacteria are likely to be a good source of these CAZymes. A genomics approach can be used to explore CAZyme abundance and diversity , but it can also provide deep insights into the biology of CAZyme producers and , in particular , into molecular mechanisms that mediate their interaction with their hosts. In this study , a Gram-negative , aerobic , rod-shaped , carrageenolytic , and culturable marine bacterium<pathogen> designated as AOL6 was isolated from a diseased thallus of a carrageenan-producing farmed rhodophyte , Kappaphycus alvarezii ( Gigartinales , Rhodophyta). The whole genome of this bacterium<pathogen> was sequenced and characterized. Sequence reads were assembled producing a high-quality genome assembly. The estimated genome size of the bacterium<pathogen> is 4.4 Mb and a G+C content of 52 %. Molecular phylogenetic analysis based on a complete sequence of 16S rRNA , rpoB , and a set of 38 single-copy genes suggests that the bacterium<pathogen> is an unknown species and represents a novel genus in the family Cellvibrionaceae that is most closely related to the genera Teredinibacter and Saccharophagus. Genome comparison with T. turnerae T7901 and S. degradans 2-40 reveals several features shared by the three species , including a large number of CAZymes that comprised > 5 % of the total number of protein-coding genes. The high proportion of CAZymes found in the AOL6 genome exceeds that of other known carbohydrate degraders , suggesting a significant capacity to degrade a range of polysaccharides including κ-carrageenan; 34 % of these CAZymes have signal peptide sequences for secretion. Three putative κ-carrageenase-encoding genes were identified from the genome of the bacterium<pathogen> via in silico analysis , consistent with the results of the zymography assay ( with κ-carrageenan as substrate). Genome analysis also indicated that AOL6 relies exclusively on type 2 secretion system ( T2SS) for secreting proteins ( possibly including glycoside hydrolases). In relation to T2SS , the product of the pilZ gene was predicted to be highly expressed , suggesting specialization for cell adhesion and secretion of virulence factors. The assignment of proteins to clusters of orthologous groups ( COGs) revealed a pattern characteristic of r-strategists. Majority of two-component system proteins identified in the AOL6 genome were also predicted to be involved in chemotaxis and surface colonization. These genomic features suggest that AOL6 is an opportunistic pathogen , adapted to colonizing polysaccharide-rich hosts , including carrageenophytes.