  To demonstrate how a transvaginal natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery ( NOTES) tubal reanastomosis is a novel route for tubal surgery. The surgical technique is a combination of traditional vaginal surgery with single-site surgical skills. The surgical technique is explained in a stepwise fashion with the use of surgical video footage. The video uses a surgical case to demonstrate the specific techniques necessary to perform a NOTES tubal reanastomosis. Teaching university. A 42-year-old female G2P2 with a history of tubal ligation 11 years before presentation requesting a tubal recanalization. Transvaginal NOTES tubal reanastomosis was initiated with a posterior colpotomy. A single-site gelport was placed. The fallopian tubes were hydrodissected , the blocked portion of each tube was removed , an epidural catheter was threaded through each lumen , and the two remaining segments of each tube were sutured together in an end-to-end fashion using single-site suturing skills. Transvaginal NOTES tubal reanastomosis as an alternative route for tubal reanastomosis. The bilateral fallopian tubes were recanalized with bilateral tubal patency. This was confirmed 8 weeks postoperatively with a three-dimensional sonohystogram , which showed patency of the bilateral fallopian tubes. The current preferred technique for reversal of a tubal sterilization is to perform a minimally invasive surgery with an end-to-end anastomosis. This gives the patient a 60 % -90 % intrauterine pregnancy rate postoperatively. NOTES has the benefits of a fast recovery , no abdominal incisional pain , and an extremely cosmetic outcome. Current research has shown a 0 % -3.1 % range for the risk of pelvic<disease> infection<disease> in transvaginal NOTES if prophylactic antibiotics are administered during the surgery. The NOTES tubal reanastomosis combines the traditional vaginal surgery technique of creating a posterior colpotomy with single-site surgical skills like suturing and knot tying. The surgery is completed through a single transvaginal port without an abdominal incision. In the hands of a skilled minimally invasive surgeon , transvaginal NOTES tubal reanastomosis is a feasible and alternative route for this procedure.