  Although research indicates that a physically active lifestyle has the potential to prevent cognitive decline and dementia , the optimal type of physical activity/exercise remains unclear. The present study aimed to determine the cognitive benefits of a golf-training programme in community-dwelling older adults. We conducted a randomised controlled trial between August 2016 and June 2017 at a general golf course. Participants included 106 Japanese adults aged 65 and older. Participants were randomly assigned to either a 24-week ( 90-120 min sessions/week) golf-training group or a health education control group. Postintervention changes in Mini-mental State Examination ( MMSE) and National Centre for Geriatrics and Gerontology-Functional Assessment Tool scores were regarded as primary outcome measures. Secondary outcome measures included changes in physical performance and Geriatric Depression<symptom> Scale ( GDS) scores. A total of 100 participants ( golf training , n = 53; control , n = 47) completed the assessments after the 24-week intervention period. The adherence to the golf programme was 96.2 % ( 51/53 participants). Analysis using linear mixed models revealed that the golf training group exhibited significantly greater improvements in immediate logical memory ( p = 0.033) , delayed logical memory ( p = 0.009) and composite logical memory ( p = 0.013) scores than the control group. However , no significant changes in MMSE , word memory , Trail Making Test or Symbol Digital Substitution Test scores were observed. In addition , no significant changes in grip strength , walking speed or GDS were observed. Golf-based exercise interventions may improve logical memory in older adults , but no significant changes in other cognitive tests. Further follow-up investigations are required to determine whether the observed effects are associated with delayed onset of mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer 's disease in older adults. UMIN-CTR UMIN000024797; Pre-results.