  The association of brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF) as a member of neurotrophin family and metabolic syndrome<symptom> ( MetS) has been proposed , however basic evidence necessary to prove ( or disprove) this association in non-genetic animal model is rare. Therefore , we investigated the alteration of encephalic BDNF gene expression in a mouse model of high-fat diet ( HFD) induced MetS. To translate MetS , male NMRI mice ( 9 weeks old; N = 13) fed on a HFD including suet powder ( 37.50 %) and granulated sugar ( 19.85 %) while control mice were fed a diet contained suet powder ( 6.25 %) and granulated sugar ( 49.09 %). We monitored the development of MetS by measuring fasting blood sugar ( FBS) and lipid ( total cholesterol ( TC) and triacylglycerol ( TGs)) and lipoprotein ( high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C) , very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( VLDL-C)) profiles , atherogenic index ( AI) , and somatic indices after 1 and 3 months of dietary interventions. The HFD intake led to increased body<symptom> weight , liver weight , FBS , TC , and decreased HDL-C as compared to chow diet in mice after first month of dietary intervention. The increased FBS , body<symptom> weight , abdominal fat mass , TGs , TC , and VLDL-C and decreased HDL-C were observed in HFD-fed mice as compared to those of chow-fed mice at 3th month. The statistical comparison of two HFD groups in two time intervals of 1st and 3th month confirmed that our HFD-induced MetS model was reliable because FBS , TGs and VLDL-C , TC , and AI have been increased significantly during selected time intervals. The AI increased significantly in HFD-fed mice compared to chow-fed mice after 3 months. The AI in HFD-fed mice treated with HFD for 3 months was increased significantly as compared to mice fed HFD for 1 month. Our diet-induced model more closely mimics the changes observed in human MetS and showed that encephalic BDNF gene in mice fed HFD was under-expressed by 0.30 fold with respect to chow-fed mice after 3 months of dietary intervention.