  Existing evidence comparing the outcomes of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG) surgery versus percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI) in patients with poor left ventricular function ( LVF) is sparse and flawed. This is largely due to patients with poor LVF being underrepresented in major research trials and the outdated nature of some studies that do not consider drug-eluting stent PCI. Following strict inclusion criteria , 717 patients who underwent revascularization by CABG or PCI between 2002 and 2015 were enrolled. All patients had poor LVF ( defined by ejection fraction < 30 %). By employing a propensity score analysis , 134 suitable matches ( 67 CABG and 67 PCI) were identified. Several outcomes were evaluated , in the matched population , using data extracted from national registry databases. CABG patients required a longer length of hospital stay post-revascularization compared to PCI in the propensity-matched population , 7 days ( lower-upper quartile; 6-12) and 2 days ( lower-upper quartile; 1-6) , respectively ( Mood 's median test , P = 0.001). Stratified Cox-regression proportional-hazards analysis of the propensity-matched population found that PCI patients experienced a higher adjusted 8-year mortality rate ( hazard ratio 3.291 , 95 % confidence interval 1.776-6.101; P < 0.001). This trend was consistent amongst urgent cases of revascularization: patients with 3 or more vessels with coronary artery disease and patients where complete revascularization was achieved. Although sub-analyses found no difference between survival distributions of on-pump versus off-pump CABG ( log-rank P = 0.726) , both modes of CABG were superior to PCI ( stratified log-rank P = 0.002). Despite a longer length of hospital stay , patients with impaired LVF requiring intervention for coronary artery disease experienced a greater post-procedural survival benefit if they received CABG compared to PCI. We have demonstrated this at 30 days , 90 days , 1 year , 3 years , 5 years and 8 years following revascularization. At present , CABG remains a superior revascularization modality to PCI in patients with poor LVF.