  The use of long-term immunosuppressive treatments on neural transplantation has been controversial during the last decades. Although nowadays there is a consensus about the necessity of maintaining a permanent state of immunosuppression to preserve the survival of cerebral grafts , little is known about the effects that chronic immunosuppression produces both on the neurodegenerative process and on transplants function. Here , we establish a new immunosuppressive protocol , based on the discontinuous administration of CsA ( 15 mg/kg; s.c.) and prednisone ( 20 mg/kg; s.c.) , to produce long-term immunosuppression in mice. Using this treatment , we analyse the effects that long-term immunosuppression induces in a chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 ,- tetrahydropyridine ( MPTP) model of parkinsonism and on the neuroprotective and neurorestorative anti-parkinsonian actions exerted by rat carotid body ( CB) xenografts. This protocol preserves the survival of rat CB xenotransplants maintaining the general wellness of the grafted mice. Although permanent immunosuppression does not prevent the MPTP-induced cell death of nigral neurons and the consequent degeneration of dopaminergic striatal innervation , allowing for its use as Parkinson 's disease ( PD) model , it reduces the microglial activation and slightly declines the striatal damage. Moreover , we reported that chronic administration of immunosuppressant drugs does not alter the neuroprotective and restorative anti-parkinsonian actions of rat CB xenografts into parkinsonian mice. This new immunosuppressive protocol provides a new murine model to assay the long-term effects of cerebral xenografts and offer a pharmacological alternative to the commonly used genetic immunodeficient mice , allowing the use of genetically modified mice as hosts. In addition , it will permit the experimental analysis of the effects produced by human CB xenografts in the chronic PD murine model , with the final aim of using CB allografts as an option of cell therapy in PD patients.