  Successful radiographic union in the treatment of congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia ( CPT) may be complicated by persistent pain , recurrent fracture , and poor function necessitating further intervention , including amputation. The long-term functional , radiographic , and clinical outcomes of patients who have undergone amputation as treatment for CPT are unknown. A retrospective study of patients with a diagnosis of CPT secondary to neurofibromatosis and eventual treatment with amputation were included. Clinical and radiographic data , including initial Crawford classification , type of amputation , subsequent operative procedures , and evidence of radiographic healing were collected. A total of 17 patients with a mean age of 4.5 years ( range , 0.7 to 9.2 y) at the time of amputation met inclusion criteria. Clinical follow-up averaged 11.1 years ( range , 2.1 to 18.4 y) , with radiographic follow-up averaging 9.1 years ( range , 2.1 to 16.4 y). The mean number of surgeries before amputation was 2.2 procedures. Four patients underwent amputation as the primary procedure ( 3 Boyd , 1 below knee amputation ( BKA)). At the time of amputation , a Boyd amputation was performed in 13 patients with stabilization of the pseudoarthrosis achieved with retrograde Rush rodding of the tibia and local autograft. A transtibial amputation ( BKA) was performed in 4. After the Boyd procedure , 4 of the 13 patients ( 31 %) demonstrated persistent nonunion of the pseudoarthrosis and required secondary procedures to gain union. At the most recent follow-up , 12 of 13 patients demonstrated successful radiographic healing of the pseudoarthrosis. Two patients , one for persistent pain and the other for refracture , were later converted to a BKA during the late teen years. All patients functioned well with the use of prosthetic devices. Union of the pseudoarthrosis occurred in > 90 % of cases following amputation. However , secondary procedures were required in 13 of the 17 patients ( 76 %). Early amputation in the treatment of CPT provides a stable extremity and potential for a high level of function with the use of an adequate prosthesis. Level IV-case series.