  Evaluate completion of partial or total salpingectomy during Cesarean delivery based on intended procedure. We conducted a retrospective study of women who had a permanent contraception procedure during Cesarean delivery at an urban , academic hospital from November 2015 through April 2017. We reviewed all charts of women who had a Cesarean delivery to identify those who underwent concomitant tubal surgery , including both completed and attempted procedures. We compared demographic , medical , and obstetric characteristics of participants by planned and completed method using univariate analysis. We identified 122 women who underwent Cesarean delivery with planned concurrent permanent contraception procedure. Thirty-two ( 26.2 %) women preferred partial salpingectomy and 90 ( 73.8 %) preferred total salpingectomy. All women who desired partial salpingectomy had the procedure performed. However , 17 ( 18.9 %) women desiring total salpingectomy could not have the procedure performed bilaterally: nine underwent a mixed procedure and seven underwent bilateral partial salpingectomy because of adhesions , engorged vasculature , or unspecified reasons. One woman had significant adhesive disease preventing any procedure. Among women who planned a total salpingectomy , having ≥ 3 Cesarean deliveries was the only factor associated with needing an alternative procedure ( P = .04). As interest in total salpingectomy for permanent contraception increases , surgeons should counsel women who are interested in total salpingectomy at time of Cesarean delivery that adhesions and tubal proximity to adjacent vessels may preclude completion of bilateral tubal removal and discuss alternative options prior to surgery. Interest in bilateral total salpingectomy for permanent contraception at the time of Cesarean delivery is increasing; accordingly , surgeons should counsel patients that adhesions and proximity to large vessels may preclude completion of bilateral total salpingectomy , especially in women who have had multiple prior Cesarean deliveries.