  Rapid advancements in biomedical research have accelerated the number of relevant electronic documents published online , ranging from scholarly articles to news , blogs , and user-generated social media content. Nevertheless , the vast amount of this information is poorly organized , making it difficult to navigate. Emerging technologies such as ontologies and knowledge bases ( KBs) could help organize and track the information associated with biomedical research developments. A major challenge in the automatic construction of ontologies and KBs is the identification of words with its respective sense ( s) from a free-text corpus. Word-sense induction ( WSI) is a task to automatically induce the different senses of a target word in the different contexts. In the last two decades , there have been several efforts on WSI. However , few methods are effective in biomedicine and life sciences. We developed a framework for biomedical entity sense induction using a mixture of natural language processing , supervised , and unsupervised learning methods with promising results. It is composed of three main steps: 1) a polysemy detection method to determine if a biomedical entity has many possible meanings; 2) a clustering quality index-based approach to predict the number of senses for the biomedical entity; and 3) a method to induce the concept ( s) ( i.e. , senses) of the biomedical entity in a given context. To evaluate our framework , we used the well-known MSH WSD polysemic dataset that contains 203 annotated ambiguous biomedical entities , where each entity is linked to 2 to 5 concepts. Our polysemy detection method obtained an F-measure of 98 %. Second , our approach for predicting the number of senses achieved an F-measure of 93 %. Finally , we induced the concepts of the biomedical entities based on a clustering algorithm and then extracted the keywords of reach cluster to represent the concept. We have developed a framework for biomedical entity sense induction with promising results. Our study results can benefit a number of downstream applications , for example , help to resolve concept ambiguities when building Semantic Web KBs from biomedical text.