  Brain-computer interfaces ( BCI) enable direct communication with a computer , using neural activity as the control signal. This neural signal is generally chosen from a variety of well-studied electroencephalogram ( EEG) signals. For a given BCI paradigm , feature extractors and classifiers are tailored to the distinct characteristics of its expected EEG control signal , limiting its application to that specific signal. Convolutional neural networks ( CNNs) , which have been used in computer vision and speech recognition to perform automatic feature extraction and classification , have successfully been applied to EEG-based BCIs; however , they have mainly been applied to single BCI paradigms and thus it remains unclear how these architectures generalize to other paradigms. Here , we ask if we can design a single CNN architecture to accurately classify EEG signals from different BCI paradigms , while simultaneously being as compact as possible. In this work we introduce EEGNet , a compact convolutional neural network for EEG-based BCIs. We introduce the use of depthwise and separable convolutions to construct an EEG-specific model which encapsulates well-known EEG feature extraction concepts for BCI. We compare EEGNet , both for within-subject and cross-subject classification , to current state-of-the-art approaches across four BCI paradigms: P300 visual-evoked potentials , error-related negativity responses ( ERN) , movement-related cortical potentials ( MRCP) , and sensory motor rhythms ( SMR). We show that EEGNet generalizes across paradigms better than , and achieves comparably high performance to , the reference algorithms when only limited training data is available across all tested paradigms. In addition , we demonstrate three different approaches to visualize the contents of a trained EEGNet model to enable interpretation of the learned features. Our results suggest that EEGNet is robust enough to learn a wide variety of interpretable features over a range of BCI tasks. Our models can be found at: https://github.com/vlawhern/arl-eegmodels.