  I-scan is an electronic chromoendoscopy technology that improves resolution of epithelial and mucosal surfaces and vessels. We performed a randomized controlled trial to compare detection of adenomas by i-scan vs standard high-definition white-light ( HDWL) colonoscopy. From February 1 through December 31 , 2017 , 740 outpatients ( 50-75 years old) undergoing screening and surveillance for colorectal neoplasia were randomly assigned to groups that received colonoscopies with i-scan 1 ( surface and contrast enhancement) or HDWL. When lesions<symptom> and polyps were detected , endoscopists could switch between i-scan 1 and HDWL imaging to confirm their finding; polyps were collected and analyzed by histology. The primary outcome was adenoma detection rate ( ADR , proportion of subjects with at least 1 adenoma of any size); secondary outcomes included detection of sessile serrated polyps and neoplasias , along with location , size , and morphology of polyps. We performed intent to treat and per-protocol analyses ( on 357 patients evaluated by i-scan and 358 evaluated by HDWL colonoscopy) to assess the primary and secondary outcomes. There were no differences in baseline characteristics between the groups. In the intent to treat analysis , the ADR was significantly higher in the i-scan 1 group ( 47.2 %) than in the HDWL colonoscopy group ( 37.7 %) ( P = .01). In the per-protocol analysis , the ADR in the i-scan 1 group ( 47.6 %) was also significantly higher than in the HDWL group ( 37.2 %) ( P = .005) , but this effect was not consistent among all endoscopists. There was no difference between groups in detection of sessile serrated polyps. However , the rate of neoplasia detection was significantly higher in the i-scan 1 group ( 56.4 %) than in the than the HDWL group ( 46.1 %) ( P = .005). In secondary analyses , the increase in ADR was associated with improved detection of diminutive flat adenomas in the right colon. In a prospective randomized trial , higher proportions of patients with adenomas were identified in a group that underwent colonoscopy with i-scan 1 than in a group evaluated by HDWL colonoscopy. This effect was mainly due to improved detection of diminutive , flat right sided adenomas. I-scan 1 technology may benefit some endoscopists. ClinicalTrials.gov no: NCT02811419.