  The shortage of organ donation is the key rate-limiting factor for organ transplantation in Iran. Many strategies have been proposed to increase donation; one strategy aims to improve awareness of organ donation and transplantation among medical students. Medical students may play an important role in the acceptance of organ donation in the population. This requires both a positive attitude and an appropriate knowledge about the concept of organ donation and transplantation. The objective of this study was to determine the knowledge and attitude of the medical students of the largest medical university in northwestern Iran. Four hundred medical students in the 5th and 6th years of their education were enrolled in this study. They completed a self-administered 3-section questionnaire. Section 1 gathered demographic characteristics , section 2 covered attitude , and section 3 assessed knowledge regarding organ donation. The concept of brain death and criteria involved in organ transplant was understood by 57 % of the students. Most of the students thought that there is a need to increase awareness regarding brain death and organ donation transplantation ( ODT). Eighty-five percent of the students said that they would donate their organs , but 15 % did not , most likely because of religion and body disfigurement. Seventy-eight percent of students would donate their organs<symptom> to their family , relatives , or friends. Sixty-four percent thought that the family can decide regarding ODT. Seventy percent were willing to donate the organs of their family members after brain death. Religion and source of information regarding ODT has a significant effect on knowledge and attitude of students. Students had a high level of attitude , but a low level of basic understanding about organ donation that lacked detailed knowledge. They accept its importance and desire further teaching to supplement their current knowledge to be able to understand the issues related to organ donation. The results of this study supported a greater emphasis on revising the curricula in medical schools to improve the knowledge of future health care workers. This strategy may be part of the solution to the chronic shortage of donor organs for transplantation.