  Psychiatric nurses are a special group of nursing staff , they experience greater work stress and lower mental health levels than regular nurses. In order to address this problem , the effect of mindfulness-based stress reduction ( MBSR) therapy on work stress and mental health of psychiatric nurses is investigated in this study. From August 2017 to November 2017 , 100 psychiatric nurses , including 68 females and 32 males , were selected as participants from three hospitals in Hunan Province of China. They were randomly divided into the intervention and control groups , with 50 respondents in each group. MBSR therapy was used as psychological intervention in the intervention group. Before and after the intervention , the two groups were assessed with the Symptom Checklist-90 ( SCL-90) scale , Self-Rating Depression<symptom> Scale ( SDS) , Self-Rating Anxiety<symptom> Scale ( SAS) , and Nursing Stress Scale. ( 1) After the intervention , the SCL-90 score of the intervention group decrease significantly , and a statistically significant difference is observed with the figure before the intervention ( P < 0.001). No statistically significant difference is found in the control group ( P > 0.05). ( 2) After the intervention , the SDS and SAS scores of the intervention group decrease significantly , and a statistically significant difference is observed with the figures before the intervention ( P < 0.001). No statistically significant difference is found in the control group ( P > 0.05). ( 3) After the intervention , the Nursing Stress Scale score of the intervention group Nursing Stress Scale decrease significantly , and a statistically significant difference is observed with the figure before the intervention ( P < 0.001). No statistically significant difference is found in the control group ( P > 0.05). MBSR therapy can reduce work stress , anxiety<symptom> , depression<symptom> , and other negative emotions among psychiatric nurses and improve their mental health.