  The error in medicine is always the subject of debate in the scientific debates. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the degree knowledge , attitudes and behaviors of health workers towards the error in the health sector. A survey was carried out involving 435 health profes- sionals working in health facilities of the Lazio region , of which 312 females ( 71 %) and 123 males ( 28 %) with an age between 21 and 68 years. A structured questionnaire was administered for investigating the experiences and opinions about the errors found in medical prac- tice , the causes underlying them and the mistakes that should never be committed. Data were collected , stratified by sex , age , marital status , year of graduation , years of service and the workplace ( medical or surgical). The statistical significance was set at p ≤ 0.05. The 5 errors found more frequently in the clinical prac- tice by health professionals were as follows: errors related to the request for examination ( 60.9 %); errors in the collection of samples ( 37.5 %); errors relating to the delivery of the reports ( 35.2 %); errors due to reporting of examinations ( 31.7 %); errors of history ( 29.2 %). The five cases considered to be the most frequently responsible for such errors were: disorganization ( 52 %); fast ( 46.4 %); tiredness due to excessive workloads , stress ( 44.6 %); negligence and carelessness ( 41.6 %); inattention ( 41.1). With regard to the errors that you should never commit they were more frequently: exchange of patient or misidentification of the patient ( 49.2 %); administration errors of therapies or medications ( 47.6 %); errors related to surgery ( 41.6 %); errors of prescription therapies or medications ( 39.3); errors in the reporting of exams ( 33.6 %). The results of this study shows the importance of a culture of error in medicine among healthcare professionals , those who have already gained practical experience in health care and therefore better able to perform a critical analysis and evaluation of the errors that occur every day. The continuous training of health professionals is fundamental for promoting patient safety and quality in the healthcare sector.