  Bipolar disorders ( BDs) are severe and common psychiatric disorders. BD pathogenesis , clinical manifestations and relapses are associated with numerous circadian rhythm abnormalities. In addition , infradian fluctuations of mood , social activity , weight and sleep patterns are very frequent in BD. Disease course with a seasonal pattern ( SP) occurs in approximately 25 % of depressive and 15 % of manic episodes , which is coupled to a more severe disease symptomatology. The pathophysiological mechanisms of seasonal effects in BD await clarification , with likely important clinical consequences. This review aims at synthesizing available data regarding the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of seasonality in BD patients , with implications for future research directions in the study of seasonality in BD. Three factors are suggested to play significant roles in BD with SP , namely the suprachiasmatic nuclei , as well as the melatonergic and photoperiodism systems. It is proposed that BD with SP may be considered as a complex disorder resulting from the interaction of clock gene vulnerabilities and biological clock neuroplasticity , with environmental factors , such as the response to light. Light seems to play a key role in BD with SP , mainly due to two seasonal signaling pathways: a light to cortex serotonin transporter pathway , as well as a pathway connecting light to melatonin synthesis. This provides a theoretical framework for BD with SP , including for future research and clinical management. The review proposes that future research should explore markers of seasonality in BD , such as plasma melatonin , sleep-wake rhythms ( with actigraphy) and genetic or epigenetic variants within the melatonin synthesis pathway. The role of light in driving BD with SP is an active area of research. Seasonality may also be intimately linked to wider aspects of BD , including via interactions with the gut microbiome , the gut-liver axis , cholesterol regulation , aspects of metabolic syndrome<disease> , vitamin D , decreased longevity , suicide risk and medication treatment targets. Further research on the role of seasonality in BD is likely to clarify the etiology , course and treatment of BD more widely.