  Retrospective review of prospective multicenter database. To investigate the determinants of patient satisfaction with respect to changes in functional limitations two-year after spinal deformity surgery. For operatively treated adult spine deformity ( ASD) , patient satisfaction has become an important component of evaluating quality of care. 430 operative ASD patients with two-year follow-up were analyzed. Patient satisfaction was assessed using the Scoliosis Research Society 22-item ( SRS-22r). Latent class analysis ( LCA) was performed to assign individuals to classes based on the changes in pre- and 2-year post-operative functions , assessed using the Oswestry Disability Index ( ODI). An ordered logistic regression was conducted to assess the association of class membership and satisfaction. LCA identified 4 classes. The worsened-condition class ( WC: 1.4 %) consisted of patients who were likely to experience worsened function , particularly in lifting and pain intensity. The remained-same class ( RS: 13.0 %) included patients who remained the same , as the majority reported approximately no change in walking , standing and sitting. The mild-improved class ( Mild-I: 40.2 %) included patients with mildly enhanced conditions , specifically , in standing , social life and employment. The most-improved class ( Most-I: 45.3 %) included patients with great improvement after surgery mainly in standing , followed by social life and employment. The odds of being satisfied were significantly increased by 3.91- ( p < 0.001) and 16.99-fold ( p < 0.001) , comparing patients in Mild-I and Most-I to the RS/WC class , respectively , after controlling for confounders. Improvement in standing , social life and employment are the most important determinants of patient satisfaction post-surgery. Reduced pain intensity and enhanced walking ability also help to elevate patient satisfaction. However , lifting , personal care , sitting , sleeping and travelling may be of less importance. Examining the heterogeneity of patient-reported outcome in ASD patients allows the identification of classes with different patient characteristics and satisfaction , and thus , help to guide tailored provision of care. 4.