  Cellular uptake kinetics are key for understanding time-dependent chemical exposure in in vitro cell assays. Slow cellular uptake kinetics in relation to the total exposure time can considerably reduce the biologically effective dose. In this study , fluorescence microscopy combined with automated image analysis was applied for time-resolved quantification of cellular uptake of 10 neutral , anionic , cationic , and zwitterionic fluorophores in two reporter gene assays. The chemical fluorescence in the medium remained relatively constant during the 24-h assay duration , emphasizing that the proteins and lipids in the fetal bovine serum ( FBS) supplemented to the assay medium represent a large reservoir of reversibly bound chemicals with the potential to compensate for chemical depletion by cell uptake , growth , and sorption to well materials. Hence FBS plays a role in stabilizing the cellular dose in a similar way as polymer-based passive dosing , here we term this process as serum-mediated passive dosing ( SMPD). Neutral chemicals accumulated in the cells up to 12 times faster than charged chemicals. Increasing medium FBS concentrations accelerated uptake due to FBS-facilitated transport but led to lower cellular concentrations as a result of increased sorption to medium proteins and lipids. In vitro cell exposure results from the interaction of several extra- and intracellular processes , leading to variable and time-dependent exposure between different chemicals and assay setups. The medium FBS plays a crucial role for the thermodynamic equilibria as well as for the cellular uptake kinetics , hence influencing exposure. However , quantification of cellular exposure by an area under the curve ( AUC) analysis illustrated that , for the evaluated bioassay setup , current in vitro exposure models that assume instantaneous equilibrium between medium and cells still reflect a realistic exposure because the AUC was typically reduced less than 20 % compared to the cellular dose that would result from instantaneous equilibrium.