  Physicochemical interactions of proteins with surfaces mediate the interactions between the implant and the biological system. Surface chemistry of the implant is crucial as it regulates the events at the interface. The objective of this study was to explore the performance of modified surfaces for such interactions relevant to various biomedical applications. Because of a wide range of surface wettability , we aimed to study protein behavior ( i.e. , conformational changes and their packing) during competitive protein adsorption. Three serum proteins ( bovine serum albumin , BSA; fibrinogen , FB; and immunoglobulin G , IgG) were tested for their conformational changes and orientation upon adsorption on hydrophilic ( COOH and amine) , moderately hydrophobic ( mixed and hybrid) , and hydrophobic ( octyl) surfaces generated via silanization. Modified surfaces were characterized using Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy , contact angle , and atomic force microscopy ( AFM) techniques. Adsorbed masses of proteins from single and binary protein solutions on different surfaces were quantified along with their secondary structure analyses. Maximum adsorbed protein masses were found to be on negatively charged and hydrophobic ( octyl) surfaces because of ionic and hydrophobic interactions between protein molecules and surfaces , respectively. Side-on and end-on orientations of adsorbed protein molecules were analyzed using theoretical and AFM analyses. We observed compact and elongated forms of BSA molecules on hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces , respectively. We further found a linear increase in the α-helix content of BSA and β-sheet contents of FB and IgG proteins with the increasing side-on ( %)- oriented protein molecules on the surfaces. This indicates that side-on orientations of adsorbed FB and IgG lead to the formation of β-sheets. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was employed to quantify the protein types and their ratio in competitively adsorbed proteins on different surfaces. A theoretical analysis was also used to determine the % secondary structures of competitively adsorbed proteins from BSA/FB and BSA/IgG solutions , which very well agreed with experimental results. The competitive protein adsorption from both BSA/FB and BSA/IgG solutions was found to be entropy-driven , as revealed by thermodynamic studies performed using isothermal titration calorimetry.