  Uric acid has been proposed as an independent risk factor of diabetic retinopathy. Although Notch signaling was reported to be affected in the presence of high concentrations of uric acid or glucose , the underlying mechanisms of hyperuricemia through the Notch signaling pathway to promote the development of diabetic retinopathy remain unknown. We incubated human retinal endothelial cells ( HRECs) with high glucose , high uric acid and high glucose plus high glucose respectively and evaluated the apoptosis rate in different treated cells by Tunel staining. We induced diabetic model by intraperitoneally streptozotocin. Then healthy rats and diabetic rats were given with adenine and oteracil potassium by gavage. Using automatic biochemical analyzer to detect blood glucose , uric acid , urea nitrogen , creatinine levels , to verify the success of modeling. The expression and mRNA levels of ICAM-1 , IL-6 , MCP-1 , TNF-a , receptors Notch 1 , ligands Dll 1 , Dll 4 , Jagged 1 , Jagged 2 were detected by RT-PCR and Western-Blot. Notch1 siRNA was used to interfere Notch signaling pathway , the expression and mRNA levels of ICAM-1 , IL-6 , MCP-1 and TNF-α was detected by RT-PCR and Western blot respectively. In vitro models , the apoptosis of HRECs cells in high uric acid plus high glucose group was the most significant. In vitro and vivo models , detection of inflammatory cytokines revealed that the expression of inflammatory cytokines increased most significantly in high uric acid plus high glucose group. Notch signaling pathway activity was also increased most significantly in high uric acid plus high glucose group. After Notch 1 siRNA transfection in high glucose and high glucose plus uric acid group , the activity of Notch signaling pathway was successfully down-regulated. We found that the apoptosis of HRECs was significantly decreased in cells transfected with Notch 1 siRNA compared to the blank vector group , and the expression of inflammatory cytokines in cells was also significantly decreased. Our study reported that high uric acid can promote the inflammation<symptom> of the retina and increase the activity of Notch signaling pathway on the basis of high glucose. Hyperuricemia promotes the development of diabetic retinopathy by increasing the activity of Notch signaling pathway. Notch signaling pathway is a potential therapeutic target for diabetic retinopathy.