  Mutations of the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER)- stress transducer OASIS ( encoded by CREB3L1) , cause severe recessive osteogenesis imperfecta ( OI) not compatible with surviving the neonatal period , as has been shown in two unrelated families through a whole gene deletion vs. a qualitative alteration of OASIS. Heterozygous carriers in the described families have exhibited a mild phenotype. OASIS is a transcription factor highly expressed in osteoblasts , and OASIS All OI-associated genes were sequenced. Primary human osteoblast-like cell ( hOB) and fibroblast ( FB) cultures were obtained for qPCR , and steady-state collagen biochemistry. FB , hOB and skin biopsies were ultrastructurally analyzed. Bone was analyzed by μCT , histomorphometry , quantitative backscattered electron imaging ( qBEI) , and Raman microspectroscopy. The proband , a boy with severe OI , had blue sclera<symptom> and tooth agenesis. A homozygous CREB3L1 stop codon mutation was detected by sequencing , while several family members were heterozygotes. Markedly low levels of CREB3L1 mRNA were confirmed by qPCR in hOBs ( 16 %) and FB ( 21 %); however , collagen I levels were only reduced in hOBs ( 5-10 %). Electron microscopy of hOBs showed pronounced alterations , with numerous myelin figures and diminished RER vs. normal ultrastructure of FB. Bone histomorphometry and qBEI were similar to collagen I OI , with low trabecular thickness and mineral apposition rate , and increased bone matrix mineralization. Raman microspectroscopy revealed low level of glycosaminoglycans. Clinical response to life-long bisphosphonate treatment was as expected in severe OI with steadily increasing bone mineral density , but despite this the boy suffered repeated childhood fractures. Deficiency of OASIS can cause severe OI compatible with surviving the neonatal period. A marked decrease of collagen type I transcription was noted in bone tissue , but not in skin , and ultrastructure of hOBs was pathological. Results also suggested OASIS involvement in glycosaminoglycan secretion in bone.