  Despite the significant role integral membrane proteins ( IMPs) play in the drug discovery process , it remains extremely challenging to express , purify , and in vitro stabilize them for detailed biophysical analyses. Cell-free transcription-translation systems have emerged as a promising alternative for producing complex proteins , but they are still not a viable option for expressing IMPs due to improper post-translational folding of these proteins. We have studied key factors influencing in vitro folding of cell-free-expressed IMPs , particularly oligomeric proteins ( i.e. , ion channels). Using a chimeric ion channel , KcsA-Kv1.3 ( K-K) , as a model IMP , we have investigated several physiochemical determinants including artificial bilayer environments ( i.e. , lipid , detergent) for K-K in vitro stabilization. We observed that fusion of a ` superfolder ' green fluorescent protein ( sfGFP) to K-K as a protein expression reporter not only improves the protein yield , but surprisingly facilitates the K-K tetramer formation , probably by enhancing the solubility of monomeric K-K. Additionally , anionic lipids ( i.e. , DMPG) were found to be essential for the correct folding of cell-free-expressed monomeric K-K into tetramer , underscoring the importance of lipid-protein interaction in maintaining structural-functional integrity of ion channels. We further developed methods to integrate cell-free-expressed IMPs directly onto a biosensor chip. We employed a solid-supported lipid bilayer onto the surface plasmon resonance ( SPR) chip to insert nascent K-K in a membrane. In a different approach , an anti-GFP-functionalized surface was used to capture in situ expressed K-K via its sfGFP tag. Interestingly , only the K-K-functionalized capture surface prepared by the latter strategy was able to interact with K-K 's small binding partners. This generalizable approach can be further extended to other membrane proteins for developing direct binding assays involving small ligands.