  Intraspecific variation in plant defense phenotype is common and has wide-ranging ecological consequences. Yet prevailing theories of plant defense allocation , which primarily account for interspecific differences in defense phenotype , often fail to predict intraspecific patterns. Furthermore , although individual variation in defense phenotype is often attributed to ecological interactions , few general mechanisms have been proposed to explain the ubiquity of variable defense phenotype within species. Here , we show experimentally that associational refuges and induced resistance interact to create predictable intraspecific variation in defense phenotype in African savanna plants. Physically defended species from four families ( Acanthaceae , Asparagaceae , Cactaceae , and Solanaceae) growing in close association with spinescent Acacia trees had 39-78 % fewer spines and thorns than did isolated conspecifics. For a subset of these species , we used a series of manipulative experiments to show that this variability is maintained primarily by a reduction in induced responses among individuals that seldom experience mammalian herbivory , whether due to association with Acacia trees or to experimental herbivore exclusion. Unassociated plants incurred 4- to 16-fold more browsing damage than did associated individuals and increased spine density by 16-38 % within one month following simulated browsing. In contrast , experimental clipping induced no net change in spine density among plants growing beneath Acacia canopies or inside long-term herbivore exclosures. Associated and unassociated individuals produced similar numbers of flowers and seeds , but seedling recruitment and survival were vastly greater in refuge habitats , suggesting a net fitness benefit of association. We conclude that plant-plant associations consistently decrease defense investment in this system by reducing both the frequency of herbivory and the intensity of induced responses , and that inducible responses enable plants to capitalize on such associations in heterogeneous environments. Given the prevalence of associational and induced defenses in plant communities worldwide , our results suggest a potentially general mechanism by which biotic interactions might predictably shape intraspecific variation in plant defense phenotype.