  To observe the changes of Prohibitin1 ( PHB1) contents in rat brain , heart , skeletal muscle tissue and mitochondria with acute exhaustive exercise and the effects of acute exhaustive exercise on mitochondrial function in rats , to explore the relationship among PHB1 and mitochondrial function and energy metabolism. Acute exhaustive exercise model: The rats carried acute exhaustive exercise after 8 weeks of feeding. The heart , brain and skeletal muscle samples were collected and the mitochondria were collected to detect the changes of respiratory function and reactive oxygen species ( ROS). The expression of PHB1 protein in tissues and mitochondria was detected by Western blot. The ATP content in the organs and the activity of complexes ( ATP synthase activity) in mitochondria were measured by spectrophotometer. ① The ATP contents of brain , myocardium and skeletal muscle were decreased significantly after acute exhaustive exercise. ② The activities of complex V , respiratory control rates ( RCR) and ROS in mitochondria of brain , myocardium and skeletal muscle were decreased significantly after acute exhaustive exercise , respiration<symptom> rate state 4 ( ST4) was increased significantly , at the same time , respiration<symptom> rate state 3 ( ST3) had no significant difference. ③ The expression of PHB1 in mitochondria of skeletal muscle was decreased significantly after acute exhaustive exercise , while there was no significant change in PHB1 in myocardial tissue and mitochondria. ④ The correlation analysis showed that the ATP contents in the brain , myocardium and skeletal muscle were positively correlated with the activity of complex V and the expression of PHB1 after acute exhaustive exercise. After acute exhaustive exercise , the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation was reduced , the ROS production was increased , the expression of PHB1 was decreased , the ATP content and the activity of complex V were decreased in the brain and skeletal muscle of rats. Acute exhaustive exercise reduced the expression of PHB1 in mitochondria , decreased mitochondrial function , and reduced energy metabolism.