  A form of lung functional imaging has been developed that uses 4DCT data to calculate ventilation ( 4DCT-ventilation). Because 4DCTs are acquired as standard-of-care to manage breathing motion during radiotherapy , 4DCT-ventilation provides functional information at no extra dosimetric or monetary cost. 4DCT-ventilation has yet to be described in children. 4DCT-ventilation can be used as a tool to help assess post-treatment lung function and predict for future clinical thoracic toxicities for pediatric patients receiving radiotherapy to the chest. The purpose of this work was to perform a preliminary evaluation of 4DCT-ventilation-based lung function changes for pediatric patients receiving radiotherapy to the lungs. The study used four patients with pre and postradiotherapy 4DCTs. The 4DCTs , deformable image registration , and a density-change-based algorithm were used to compute pre and post-treatment 4DCT-ventilation images. The post-treatment 4DCT-ventilation images were compared to the pretreatment 4DCT-ventilation images for a global lung response and for an intrapatient dose-response ( providing an assessment for dose-dependent regional dose-response). For three of the four patients , a global ventilation decline of 7-37 % was observed , while one patient did not demonstrate a global functional decline. Dose-response analysis did not reveal an intrapatient dose-response from 0 to 20 Gy for three patients while one patient demonstrated increased 4DCT-ventilation decline as a function of increasing lung doses up to 50 Gy. Compared to adults , pediatric patients have unique lung function , dosimetric , and toxicity profiles. The presented work is the first to evaluate spatial lung function changes in pediatric patients using 4DCT-ventilation and showed lung function changes for three of the four patients. The early changes demonstrated with lung function imaging warrant further longitudinal work to determine whether the imaging-based early changes can be predicted for long-term clinical toxicity.