  Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction ( ACLR) may not restore lower limb biomechanics during single-limb landings. Our objective was to identify and evaluate differences in lower limb biomechanics during high-demand single-limb landings between the ACLR limb and the contralateral limb and healthy control participants. A systematic review of the literature was conducted using six electronic databases searched until April 2017 for published peer-reviewed studies that investigated lower limb biomechanics on the ACLR limb compared with either the contralateral limb or those of control participants. Meta-analysis with standardized mean differences ( SMD) were performed for peak angles and moments ( hip , knee and ankle joints) in the sagittal plane during single-limb landing tasks. A total of 35 studies met inclusion criteria. Four different single-leg landing tasks were identified: forward hop ( n = 24 studies) , landing from a height ( n = 9 studies) , vertical hop ( n = 4 studies) , and diagonal leap ( n = 1 study). A reduced peak knee flexion angle was found in the ACLR limb compared with the contralateral limb during a forward hop landing task ( SMD- 0.39; 95 % confidence interval ( CI)- 0.59 to- 0.18) and compared with a control group ( SMD between- 1.01 and- 0.45) for all three reported single-leg landing tasks: forward hop , landing from a height , and diagonal leap. Similarly , a reduced peak knee internal extensor moment was found in the ACLR limb compared with the contralateral limb for all three reported landing tasks: forward hop , landing from a height , vertical hop ( SMD between- 1.43 and- 0.53) , and in two of three landing tasks when compared with a control group ( SMD between- 1.2 and- 0.52). No significant differences in peak flexion ( hip and ankle) angle or peak ( hip and ankle) internal extensor moment were found in the ACLR limb compared with both the contralateral limb and a control group. Participants performed single-limb landings on the ACLR limb with reductions in peak sagittal knee kinematics as well as peak joint moments compared with both the contralateral limb and a control group. Stiffer single-leg landings potentially expose the knee joint<symptom> to higher forces , which may increase risk of injury. Clinical testing after ACLR surgery should explore movement quality as well as performance of functional tasks. Case-control , IV.