  The location of capitellar osteochondritis dissecans ( OCD) lesions<symptom> in the sagittal plane guides the surgical approach used for autologous osteochondral transplantation. We sought to compare the capitellar region accessible for orthogonal graft placement through 3 approaches: ( 1) posterior anconeus-split approach; ( 2) lateral approach with lateral collateral ligament ( LCL) preservation ( LCL-preserving lateral approach); and ( 3) lateral approach with LCL release ( LCL-sacrificing lateral approach). The 3 approaches were sequentially performed on 9 cadaveric elbows: posterior anconeus-split approach , LCL-preserving lateral approach , and LCL-releasing lateral approach. The extent of perpendicular access was delineated with Kirschner wires. Each specimen underwent computed tomography. The accessible region was quantified as degrees on the capitellum and converted into time on a clock , where 0 ° corresponds to the 12-o'clock position. Generalized estimating equation modeling was used to investigate for significant within-specimen , between-approach differences. The LCL-preserving and LCL-sacrificing lateral approaches provided more anterior perpendicular access than the posterior anconeus-split approach ( mean , 0 ° vs 83 °; P < .001). The posterior anconeus-split approach provided more posterior perpendicular access ( mean , 215.0 °; P < .001) than the LCL-preserving ( mean , 117 °; P < .001) and LCL-sacrificing ( mean , 145 °; P < .001) lateral approaches. The LCL-sacrificing lateral approach provided more posterior exposure than the LCL-preserving lateral approach ( mean , 145 ° vs 117 °; P < .001). The mean arc of visualization was greater for the LCL-sacrificing lateral approach than for the LCL-preserving lateral approach ( 145 ° vs 117 ° , P < .001). A capitellar OCD lesion<symptom> can be perpendicularly accessed from a posterior anconeus-split approach if it is posterior to 83 ° ( 2:46 clock-face position). A laterally based approach may be required for lesions<symptom> anterior to this threshold. These data inform clinical decisions regarding the appropriate surgical approach for any OCD