  Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA) axis , as the key moderator in energy metabolism , plays an important role in diabetes. The endogenous cannabinoid system ( eCBs) involves in neuronal functions , and simultaneously cannabinoid receptors are almost expressed in all regions of the hypothalamus according to a spate of reports. However , few data investigate the changes of eCBs and HPA axis in type 2 diabetes. In this study , five diabetes mellitus rhesus monkeys , five prediabetes rhesus monkeys and five healthy rhesus monkeys were observed. In the present study , we detected cell swelling and necrosis<symptom> extensively in the paraventricular nucleus ( PVN) and neurohypophysis in prediabetes and overt diabetes monkeys. The adrenocorticotropic hormone in the pituitary gland , adrenocorticotropic hormone receptor , and 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in the adrenal gland were all hyper-secreted and expressed from healthy to overt diabetes. Meanwhile , the cortisol concentration in the adrenal gland was increased along with the progress of diabetes. It could be concluded that hyperfunction of the HPA axis exists in the type 2 Diabetes pathogenesis. However , we also found a weakened expression and secretion of corticotrophin releasing hormone and glucocorticoids receptor in PVN. The expression of corticotropin releasing hormone receptor 1 in pituitary gland decreased in prediabetes monkeys , but increased in overt diabetes monkeys. The downregulation of cannabinoid receptor 1 and upregulation of monoglycerol lipase and fatty acid amide hydrolase in PVN was involved in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Collectively , we can conclude that changes in endocannabinoid hydrolase and cannabinoid receptor might indicate the effect of downregulation of eCBs. It can be assumed that hyper-function of the HPA axis from healthy to overt diabetes is due to the undermining inhibition of eCBs. However , the regulatory mechanism of eCBs targets on the HPA axis need to be further explored.