  To compare and evaluate the reliability , validity , feasibility , clinical utility , and nurses ' preference of the Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised , the Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale , and the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale used for procedural pain in ventilated neonates. Procedural pain is a common phenomenon but is undermanaged and underassessed in hospitalised neonates. Information for clinician selecting pain measurements to improve neonatal care and outcomes is still limited. A prospective observational study was used. A total of 1,080 pain assessments were made at 90 neonates by two nurses independently , using three scales viewing three phases of videotaped painful ( arterial blood sampling) and nonpainful procedures ( diaper change). Internal consistency , inter-rater reliability , discriminant validity , concurrent validity and convergent validity of scales were analysed. Feasibility , clinical utility and nurses ' preference of scales were also investigated. All three scales showed excellent inter-rater coefficients ( from 0.991-0.992) and good internal consistency ( 0.733 for the Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised , 0.837 for the Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale and 0.836 for the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale , respectively). Scores of painful and nonpainful procedures on the three scales changed significantly across the phases. There was a strong correlation between the three scales with adequate limits of agreement. The mean scores of the Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale for feasibility and utility were significantly higher than those of the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale , but not significantly higher than those of the Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised. The Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale was mostly preferred by 55.9 % of the nurses , followed by the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale ( 23.5 %) and the Premature Infant Pain Profile-Revised ( 20.6 %). The three scales are all reliable and valid , but the Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale and the Neonatal Infant Acute<symptom> Pain<symptom> Assessment Scale perform better in reliability. The Neonatal Pain , Agitation , and Sedation Scale appears to be a better choice for frontier nurses to assess procedural pain in ventilated neonates based on its good feasibility , utility and nurses ' preference. Choosing a valid , reliable , feasible and practical measurement is the key step for better management of procedural pain for ventilated newborns. Using the right and suitable tool is helpful to accurately identify pain , ultimately improve the neonatal care and outcomes.