  This work presents a visual information fusion approach for robust probability-oriented feature matching. It is sustained by omnidirectional imaging , and it is tested in a visual localization framework , in mobile robotics. General visual localization methods have been extensively studied and optimized in terms of performance. However , one of the main threats that jeopardizes the final estimation is the presence of outliers. In this paper , we present several contributions to deal with that issue. First , 3D information data , associated with SURF ( Speeded-Up Robust Feature) points detected on the images , is inferred under the Bayesian framework established by Gaussian processes ( GPs). Such information represents a probability distribution for the feature points & rsquo; existence , which is successively fused and updated throughout the robot & rsquo; s poses. Secondly , this distribution can be properly sampled and projected onto the next 2D image frame in t +1 , by means of a filter-motion prediction. This strategy permits obtaining relevant areas in the image reference system , from which probable matches could be detected , in terms of the accumulated probability of feature existence. This approach entails an adaptive probability-oriented matching search , which accounts for significant areas of the image , but it also considers unseen parts of the scene , thanks to an internal modulation of the probability distribution domain , computed in terms of the current uncertainty of the system. The main outcomes confirm a robust feature matching , which permits producing consistent localization estimates , aided by the odometer & rsquo; s prior to estimate the scale factor. Publicly available datasets have been used to validate the design and operation of the approach. Moreover , the proposal has been compared , firstly with a standard feature matching and secondly with a localization method , based on an inverse depth parametrization. The results confirm the validity of the approach in terms of feature matching , localization accuracy , and time consumption.