  To evaluate postoperative sexual functioning and the influence of patients ' expectations on the change in sexuality following laparoscopic total ( TLH) versus subtotal hysterectomy ( LASH). A total of 120 women undergoing laparoscopic hysterectomy were preoperatively enrolled in this bicentric prospective study. Sexual functioning ( SF) was evaluated using the female sexual function index ( FSFI). Additionally , participants filled in a standardised questionnaire concerning expected changes in SF after surgery. At 3 , 6 and 12 months following surgery , women were asked again to assess their level of SF ( FSFI). Data of women who participated in at least one FSFI follow-up assessment were analysed ( n = 92). We compared the change in SF after surgery between patients with TLH ( n = 46) and LASH ( n = 46). Additionally , we calculated regression analyses with the patients ' expectations as a predictor for change in FSFI scores. Comparing the change of FSFI scores after surgery in both collectives revealed differences only 3 months after surgery , as improvement was stronger for the LASH collective compared to the THL group ( p = 0.006). There were no changes comparing collectives after 6 ( p = 0.663) and 12 ( p = 0.326) months. Concerning patients ' expectations , for the LASH group baseline SF ( p < 0.001) , but not expectations ( p = 0.567) predicted the strength of change at each of the follow ups: a lower level of baseline SF was linked to a stronger improvement after surgery. For the THL collective , both baseline SF ( p < 0.001) as well as patients ' expectations ( 3 months: p = 0.077 , 6 months: p = 0.37 , 12 months: p = 0.024) predicted the strength of change: both , a lower level of baseline SF and higher expectations towards an improvement predicted a stronger improvement. The preservation of the cervix does not show an advantage in improving SF after surgery. Both methods induce a comparable improvement in long-time SF , especially in patients with an impaired sexuality pre-surgery. Furthermore , patients ' expectations concerning this matter seem to have an impact on the postoperative outcome; therefore , this circumstance should be considered in future projects.