  Riding with a drinking driver ( RWDD) is a serious concern that leads to numerous preventable deaths every year. There is a significant gap in research on empirically tested predictors of RWDD that could be implemented in prevention efforts. College students are in need of such prevention efforts , as they have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related crash fatalities and may engage in RWDD more than their noncollege peers. This study utilized behavioral decision-making approach to examine predictors of RWDD and declining a ride from a drinking driver ( Decline) in older college students. Students ( n = 791) in their third year of college were enrolled from 3 large and diverse universities. Psychosocial ( e.g. , expectancies , norms) and decision-making variables ( willingness to RWDD and intentions to use alternatives) were assessed in the fall of their third year. One year later , RWDD and Decline behaviors were assessed. Zero-inflated Poisson analyses were used to assess how decision-making variables predicted RWDD and Decline behavior. Associations between psychosocial and decision-making variables were also assessed. Thirteen percent of students reported RWDD and ~ 28 % reported Decline behavior. Willingness to RWDD and typical weekly drinking were both associated with increases in RWDD ( odds ratio ( OR) = 1.58 and 1.40 , respectively) , whereas intentions to use alternatives , sex , and ethnicity were not associated with RWDD. Only weekly drinking was associated with Decline , with an increase in drinking associated with increased Decline ( OR = 1.48). All psychosocial variables were significantly associated with the decision-making variables except positive expectancies. Results provide evidence that willingness to RWDD is a predictor of future RWDD , even if students intend to use safe alternatives. Future research is needed to better understand decision-making factors that influence Decline. Results also suggest prevention and interventions efforts , such as brief motivational intervention , Parent-Based Interventions , and normative feedback interventions could be adapted to reduce RWDD.