  Understanding the pathomechanics of a bicruciate injury ( BI) is critical for its correct diagnosis and treatment. The purpose of this biomechanical study aims to quantify the effects of sequential sectioning of the anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) and posterior cruciate ligament ( PCL) bundles on knee laxity. Twelve cadaveric knees ( six matched pairs) were used. Knee laxity measurements consisted of neutral tibial position , anterior-posterior translation , internal-external rotation , and varus-valgus angulation in different conditions: intact , ACL cut , incomplete BI ( divided into two groups: anterolateral ( AL) bundle intact or posteromedial ( PM) bundle intact) and complete bicruciate tear. Data were collected using a Microscribe system at 0 ° , 30 ° , 60 ° , and 90 ° of knee flexion. In comparison to the intact knees , incomplete BI and complete BI showed a significant increase of total antero-posterior tibial translation. The largest significant increase was observed at 90 ° of flexion after a complete bicruciate resection ( p < 0.001). A threshold difference greater than 15 mm from the intact could be used to identify a complete BI from an incomplete BI evaluating the total antero-posterior translation at 90 °. All sectioned states had significant increases compared with the intact condition in internal-external rotation and varus-valgus stability at all tested flexion angles. Both incomplete and complete BI led to an important AP translation instability at all angles; however , full extension was the most stable position at all injured models. Total antero-posterior translation at 90 ° of knee flexion over 15 mm , in comparison to the intact condition , was indicative of a complete BI. Since the appropriate assessment of a combined ACL and PCL lesion<symptom> remains a challenge , this study intends to assist its diagnosis. As BI 's main antero-posterior instability occurred at 90 ° , a total antero-posterior drawer test is proposed to evaluate BI in the clinical setting. Total antero-posterior translation at 90 ° > 15 mm , in comparison to the intact condition or the contra-lateral non-injured knee , can be used to identify a complete from an incomplete BI.