  Cyathula capitate is the main adulterant of C.offinalis. According to the literature reported , there are obvious differences in properties , taste and pharmacological activity between C. capitate and C.offinalis. Therefore , C. capitate can only be used as a local conventional medicine and ca n't be a substitute for C. offinalis. Since the appearance of C.capitata is very similar to the C.offinalis and the content of cyasterone also can reach the limit of the current pharmacopoeia standard , the C.capitata is mostly sold in the form of impersonation oradmixture , which seriously affected the safety of the clinical medication and the development of the genuine crude drugs. In view of this , HPLC characteristic fingerprint was used to reveal the difference of multi-ingredients of C. offinalis , C. capitata and their admixture. According to the HPLC chromatogram of C.offinalis , C. capitata. and their admixture , 65 different components were obtained to set up a peak area data matrix of 26 × 65 , which was applied to perform the characteristic peak difference analysis , similarity analysis , hierarchical clustering analysis HCA and principal component analysis ( PCA). Characteristic peak difference analysis showed that the characteristic peaks of C. capitata and their admixture are more and higher respond than those of C. offinalis. The 9 characteristic peaks were used to distinguish C. capitata , 2 of which were used to distinguish C. offinalis mixed with 5 % C. capitata. UV spectra of 9 characteristic peaks are mostly similar to the end absorption spectra of saponins , indicating that C. capitata may contain a large amount of saponins. By the reference fingerprint of C.offinalis established , the similarity analysis showed that the similarity degree of C. offinalis are higher than 0.942 , while the similarity degree of C. capitata , C.offinalis mixed with 5 % C. capitata are less than 0.383 and 0.399. C.offinalis , C. capitata , C.offinalis mixed with 5 % C. capitata could be obviously divided into 3 classes by HCA and PCA. These results showed that there are obvious difference in the chemical composition of C. offinalis , C. capitata and their admixture , which could provide evidence for their identification.