  Trochlear dysplasia is a major risk factor predisposing to patellar instability and has been reported to occur in up to 85 % of patients with recurrent patellar dislocation. Different operative techniques have been described to correct trochlear dysplasia , including the Bereiter technique , in which subchondral bone is removed and the cartilage can be compressed into a U-shaped groove. The hypothesis was that after a Bereiter-type trochleoplasty combined with medialisation of the tibial tubercle and MPFL reconstruction , patellar pain and instability decreased and anatomic reconstruction can be seen radiographically after 5-year follow-up. Between 2004 and 2011 , a combined procedure including Bereiter-type trochleoplasty was performed on 21 consecutively included patients ( 22 knees) with objective patellar instability and severe trochlear dysplasia. Instability and pain were assessed preoperatively and 3 , 6 , 12 , 24 and 60 months postoperatively with the visual analogue scale ( VAS) for pain and instability , Kujala , International Knee Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Evaluation ( IKDC SKE) and Short Form Health Survey ( SF-36). Pre- and postoperatively , a true lateral radiograph was made to investigate the presence of the crossing sign and to measure the trochlear bump and trochlear depth , as well as a sunrise patella view to measure the sulcus angle. VAS pain and instability , Kujala and IKDC SKE improved significantly 5 years after trochleoplasty ( p < 0.05). SF-36 showed no significant improvement. None of the patients reported patellar dislocations postoperatively. Sport activities remained limited. Postoperative radiographs showed no crossing sign. There was a significant increase in trochlear depth ( p < 0.0001) and also a significant decrease in trochlear bump and sulcus angle ( both p < 0.0001). A combined procedure consisting of Bereiter-type trochleoplasty , medialisation of the tibial tubercle and MPFL reconstruction in patients with objective patellar instability and severe trochlear dysplasia resulted in a clear decrease of pain and instability. Radiological assessment showed anatomical reconstruction. Nevertheless , residual symptoms remain and the possibility of future cartilage damage is uncertain. IV.