  Microfluidic technology has led to the development of advanced in vitro tumor platforms that overcome the challenges of in vivo animal and in vitro two dimensional models. This paper presents platform designs and methods used to develop complex vascularized in vitro models to mimic the tumor microenvironment. Features of these platforms include a continuous , aligned endothelium that allows for cell-cell interactions between vasculature and tumor cells. A novel platform for fabrication of a single endothelialized microchannel encased within a collagen platform hosting breast cancer cells was developed and utilized to study the influence of cellular interaction on transport phenomenon through vasculature in a hyperpermeable tumor microenvironment. This platform relies on subtractive tissue engineering fabrication techniques. Through confocal imaging we have demonstrated that the platform produces enhanced vessel leakiness recapitulating physiological features of the tumor microenvironment. The influence of tumor endothelial interactions on transport of particles was also demonstrated. Additionally , we designed two more complex and intricate endothelialized microfluidic networks by combining lithographic techniques with additive tissue engineering methods. We created a network platform consisting of interconnected microchannels to model a highly vascularized system and successfully perfused the system with fluorescent particles. Finally , we developed a physiologically representative in vitro microfluidic platform with vasculature patterned from in vivo data showing the versatility of these systems to replicate the complex geometries of tumor microvasculature and dynamically measured particle transport. Overall , we have shown the ability to develop functional microfluidic vascular tumor platforms of varying complexities and demonstrated their utility for studying spatial particle transport within these systems. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.