  Recent research has improved our understanding of the pulmonary vein and surrounding left atrial<symptom> ( LA-PV) junction and the left atrial appendage ( LAA) , which are considered the ` trigger ' and ` substrate ' in the development of atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( AF) , respectively. Herein , with the aim of identifying the underlying potential genetic mechanisms , we compared differences in gene expression between LA-PV junction and LAA specimens via bioinformatic analysis. Microarray data of AF ( GSE41177) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. In addition , linear models for microarray data limma powers differential expression analyses and weighted correlation network analysis ( WGCNA) were applied. From the differential expression analyses , 152 differentially expressed genes and hub genes , including LEP , FOS , EDN1 , NMU , CALB2 , TAC1 , and PPBP , were identified. Our analysis revealed that the maps of extracellular matrix ( ECM)- receptor interactions , PI3K-Akt and Wnt signaling pathways , and ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis were significantly enriched. In addition , the WGCNA results showed high correlations between genes and related genetic clusters to external clinical characteristics. Maps of the ECM-receptor interactions , chemokine signaling pathways , and the cell cycle were significantly enriched in the genes of corresponding modules and closely associated with AF duration , left atrial diameter , and left ventricular ejection function , respectively. Similarly , mapping of the TNF signaling pathway indicated significant association with genetic traits of ischemic heart disease , hypertension , and diabetes comorbidity. The ECM-receptor interaction as a possible central node of comparison between LA-PV and LAA samples reflected the special functional roles of ` triggers ' and ` substrates ' and may be closely associated with AF duration. Furthermore , LEP , FOS , EDN1 , NMU , CALB2 , TAC1 , and PPBP genes may be implicated in the occurrence and maintenance of AF through their interactions with each other.