  Environmental pollution with petroleum toxic products has afflicted various ecosystems , causing devastating damage to natural habitats with serious economic implications. Some crude oil components may serve as growth substrates for microorganisms. A number of bacterial strains reveal metabolic capacities to biotransform various organic compounds. Some of the hydrocarbon degraders are highly biochemically specialized , while the others display a versatile metabolism and can utilize both saturated aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons. The extended catabolic profiles of the latter group have been subjected to systematic and complex studies relatively rarely thus far. Growing evidence shows that numerous bacteria produce broad biochemical activities towards different hydrocarbon types and such an enhanced metabolic potential can be found in many more species than the already well-known oil-degraders. These strains may play an important role in the removal of heterogeneous contamination. They are thus considered to be a promising solution in bioremediation applications. The main purpose of this article is to provide an overview of the current knowledge on aerobic bacteria involved in the mineralization or transformation of both n-alkanes and aromatic hydrocarbons. Variant scientific approaches enabling to evaluate these features on biochemical as well as genetic levels are presented. The distribution of multidegradative capabilities between bacterial taxa is systematically shown and the possibility of simultaneous transformation of complex hydrocarbon mixtures is discussed. Bioinformatic analysis of the currently available genetic data is employed to enable generation of phylogenetic relationships between environmental strain isolates belonging to the phyla Actinobacteria , Proteobacteria , and Firmicutes. The study proves that the co-occurrence of genes responsible for concomitant metabolic bioconversion reactions of structurally-diverse hydrocarbons is not unique among various systematic groups.