  AIMS To investigate the effects on milk yield in lactating dairy cows of a single dose of sporidesmin , and to categorise the responses based on clinical signs and differing degrees of liver damage , as assessed by activities of γ-glutamyl transferase ( GGT) and post-mortem liver histopathology. METHODS Adult lactating dairy cows ( n = 17) were given a single intra-ruminal dose of 0.24 mg/kg of sporidesmin dissolved in ethanol and diluted in water on Day 0; an additional three cows served as untreated controls. Weekly serum samples were collected between Days -14 and 42 and analysed for activities of GGT. Milk yields were measured daily over the same period. Cows were subjected to euthanasia due to severe clinical signs ( n = 2) or were slaughtered at the end of the trial. Samples of livers were examined histologically and were scored for lesions<symptom> on a scale from 0 ( normal) to 3 ( severe). Based on GGT activities and clinical observations , cows that were treated with sporidesmin were categorised as non-responders ( no clinical signs and normal GGT) , subclinical ( elevated GGT and no clinical signs) or clinical. Outcomes were compared between these three groups and control cows using generalised additive models. RESULTS Seven cows were classified as clinical , and had median liver scores of 22 ( 95 % CI = 20.6-23.4) , six were subclinical with median liver scores of 8.7 ( 95 % CI = 3.8-13.5) and four were non-responders with median liver scores of 2.5 ( 95 % CI = 1.2-4.3). Median liver scores for the three control cows were 1 ( 95 % CI = -0.8-2.1). Activities of GGT increased in subclinical and clinical cows around Day 7. The milk yield of all cows treated with sporidesmin , including non-responder cows , started to decrease on Day 1 , and reached a nadir ( a drop of between 9 and 85 %) on Day 7. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE It is likely that the overall effects of sporidesmin consumption on milk<symptom> production<symptom> by the national herd in New Zealand are hugely underestimated , especially considering its effects on non-responder and subclinical cows as shown in this trial. In view of the results presented here , the authors are suggesting a change to the definition of response to sporidesmin from non-responder , subclinical , and clinical , to subclinical-low , subclinical-high , and clinical , when measuring a combination of GGT activities , clinical signs and milk yields during facial eczema-risk seasons ( summer-autumn).