  To evaluate the initial outcomes and complications of Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty ( DMEK) using donor tissues tri-folded with the endothelium inwards , preloaded at the Eye Bank , and delivered with bimanual pull-through technique. Prospective , noncomparative , interventional case series. Setting: Eye bank and tertiary care eye department. Forty-six consecutive eyes of 41 patients with Fuchs endothelial dystrophy with or without cataract operated between November 2016 and March 2017. DMEK tissues prepared with SCUBA technique and punched to a diameter of 8.25 mm were preloaded with the endothelium tri-folded inwards in an intraocular lens ( IOL) cartridge with a 2.2-mm opening filled with the same tissue culture medium contained in the vial used for shipment to the surgeon. Standardized DMEK was performed as a single procedure ( n = 15) or in combination with phacoemulsification and IOL implantation ( n = 31) within 48 hours from preparation using a bimanual pull-through technique. Preparation and surgical times , intraoperative and postoperative complications , best spectacle-corrected visual acuity ( BSCVA) , endothelial cell density ( ECD) , and graft detachment rate. Preparation time averaged 26.2 ± 4.1 minutes ( range 17-36 minutes) , while the surgical time from opening of the stoppers to air fill of the anterior chamber never exceeded 9 minutes ( range 3-9 minutes). Surgery was uneventful in all cases. Postoperative complications included graft detachment in 9 of 46 cases ( 19.6 %) , successfully managed in all cases by single rebubbling within 6 days from surgery , and glaucoma irresponsive to conservative treatment in 1 of 46 cases ( 2.1 %). In all eyes without comorbidities ( 35 of 40 eyes) BSCVA was 20/25 ( 0.097 logMAR) or better as early as 3 months after surgery. Six months postoperatively , ECD was available in 24 of 25 eyes with an endothelial cell loss calculated as a percentage of the preoperative value determined at the eye bank ( ranging from 2500 to 2800 cells/mm Delivering a preloaded DMEK tissue , tri-folded with the endothelium inwards , minimizes surgical time and costs without negatively affecting the outcomes of the procedure.