  Chondrogenesis of human mesenchymal stem cells ( hMSCs) is an important biological process in many applications including cartilage tissue engineering. We investigated the glucose uptake characteristics of aggregates of hMSCs undergoing chondrogenesis over a 3-week period both experimentally and by using a mathematical model. Initial concentrations of glucose in the medium were varied from 1 to 4.5 g/L to mimic limiting conditions and glucose uptake profiles were obtained. A reaction-diffusion mathematical model was implemented and solved to estimate kinetic parameters. Experimental glucose uptake rates increased with culture time for aggregates treated with higher initial glucose concentrations ( 3 and 4.5 g/L) , whereas they decreased or remained constant for those treated with lower initial glucose concentrations ( 1 and 2 g/L). Lactate production rate increased by as much as 40 % for aggregates treated with higher initial glucose concentrations ( 2 , 3 and 4.5 g/L) , whereas it remained constant for those treated with 1 g/L initial glucose concentration. The estimated DNA-normalized maximum glucose uptake rate decreased by a factor of 9 from day 0-2 ( 12.5 mmol/s/g DNA) to day 6-8 ( 1.5 mmol/s/g DNA) , after which it started to increase. On day 18-20 , its value ( 17.5 mmol/s/g DNA) was about 11 times greater than its lowest value. Further , the extracellular matrix levels of aggregates at day 14 and day 21 correlated with their overall glucose uptake and lactate production. The results suggest that during chondrogenesis , for optimal results , cells require increasing amounts of glucose. Our results also suggest that diffusion limitations play an important role in glucose uptake even in the smaller size aggregate model of chondrogenesis. Further , the results indicate that glucose uptake or lactate production can be a tool for predicting the end quality of tissue during the process of chondrogenesis. The estimated kinetic parameters can be used to model glucose requirements in cartilage tissue engineering applications.