  To investigate differences and similarities in the clinical approach of young clinicians managing women with endometrial cancer ( EC) conservatively. A web-based survey was carried out. A platform of the European Network of Young Gynaecological Oncologists ( ENYGO) database was used. A 38-item multiple-choice questionnaire was used to evaluate current practice in fertility-sparing management of EC. The survey covered investigations , treatment options , follow-up and management of recurrence and future family planning. Descriptive statistics were used. Overall , 116 out of 650 ( 17.84 %) ENYGO members responded to the survey. In 92 ( 79.3 %) centres , the caseload of early stage EC treated conservatively was less than 10 per year. One hundred and seven responders ( 93.8 %) believe that treatment with progestins could be offered in grade 1 EC without myometrial invasion , but a minority would recommend it even for grade 2 tumours with no myometrial invasion or grade 1 with superficial invasion. The diagnostic tool for establishing grade of tumour was hysteroscopy with dilatation and curettage in 64 ( 55 %) centres. Medroxyprogesterone acetate represents the most commonly prescribed progestogen ( 55 , 47.4 %). In 78 ( 67.2 %) centres , a repeat endometrial biopsy was offered after 3 months of treatment commencement. Recurrences are treated mostly with hysterectomy ( 81 , 69.9 %) with only a small number of responders recommending to repeat progestin treatment. Lynch syndrome<disease> is a contraindication for conservative management in half of the responders ( 57 , 49.1 %). Most clinicians agree that patients should be referred promptly for assisted reproductive techniques once complete response has been achieved ( 68 , 58.6 %). Our study shows that conservative management is increasingly offered to women affected by early stage EC wishing to preserve their fertility. Further studies and joint registries are required to evaluate safety and effectiveness of this approach in this probably growing number of patients.