  Poor<symptom> sleep quality is common in the intensive care unit ( ICU) and may be associated with adverse outcomes. Hence , ICU-based efforts to promote sleep are gaining attention , motivating interest in methods to measure sleep in critically ill patients. Actigraphy evaluates rest and activity by algorithmically processing gross motor activity data , usually collected by a non-invasive wristwatch-like accelerometer device. In critically ill patients , actigraphy has been used as a surrogate measure of sleep , however its use has not been systematically reviewed. To conduct a systematic review of ICU-based studies that used actigraphy as a surrogate measure of sleep , including its feasibility , validity and reliability as a measure of sleep in critically ill patients. We searched PubMed , EMBASE , CINAHL , Proquest , and Web of Science for studies that used actigraphy to evaluate sleep in ≥ 5 patients in an ICU setting. Our search yielded 4,869 citations , with 13 studies meeting eligibility criteria. These 13 studies were conducted in 10 countries , and 8 ( 62 %) were published since 2008. Across the 13 studies , ICU patients ' mean total sleep time , as estimated using actigraphy , ranged from 4.4 to 7.8 hours at nighttime and 7.1 to 12.1 hours over a 24-hour period , with 1.4 to 49.0 mean nocturnal awakenings and a sleep efficiency of 61 % to 75 %. When compared side-by-side against other measures of sleep ( polysomnography , nurse assessments , and patient questionnaires) , actigraphy consistently yielded higher total sleep time and sleep efficiency , fewer nighttime awakenings ( versus polysomnography) , and more overall awakenings ( versus nurse assessment and patient questionnaires). None of the studies evaluated the association of actigraphy-based measures of sleep and ICU patient outcomes. In critically ill patients , actigraphy is being used more frequently as a surrogate measure of sleep; however , because actigraphy only measures gross motor activity , its ability to estimate sleep is limited by the processing algorithm used. Prior ICU-based studies involving actigraphy were heterogeneous and lacked data regarding actigraphy-based measures of sleep and patient outcomes. Larger , more rigorous and standardized studies are needed to better understand the role of actigraphy to evaluate sleep and sleep-related outcomes in critically ill patients.