  The management of heart<symptom> failure<symptom> patients presenting in a moribund state remains challenging , despite significant advances in the field of ventricular assist systems. Bridge to decision involves using temporary devices to stabilize the hemodynamic state of such patients while further assessment is performed and a decision can be made regarding patient management. The purpose of this study ( NCVC-BTD_01 , National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center-Bridge to Dicision_01) is to assess the safety and effectiveness of the newly developed extracorporeal continuous-flow ventricular assist system employing a disposable centrifugal pump with a hydrodynamically levitated bearing ( BR16010) use as a bridge-to-decision therapy for patients with severe heart<symptom> failure<symptom> or refractory cardiogenic shock<symptom>. NCVC-BTD_01 is a single-center , single-arm , open-label , exploratory , medical device , investigator-initiated clinical study. It is conducted at the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center in Japan. A total of nine patients will be enrolled in the study. The study was planned using Simon 's minimax two-stage phase design. The primary endpoint is a composite of survival free of device-related serious adverse events and complications during device support. For left ventricular assistance , withdrawal of a trial device due to cardiac function recovery or exchange to other ventricular assist devices ( VADs) for the purpose of bridge to transplantation ( BTT) during 30 days after implantation will be considered study successes. For right ventricular assistance , withdrawal of tal device due to right ventricular function recovery within 30 days after implantation will be considered a study success. Secondary objectives include changes in brain natriuretic peptide levels ( 7 days after implantation of a trial device and the day of withdrawal of a trial device) , period of mechanical ventricular support , changes in left ventricular ejection fraction ( 7 days after implantation of a trial device and the day of withdrawal of a trial device) , and changes in left ventricular diastolic dimension ( 7 days after implantation of a trial device and the day of withdrawal of a trial device). We will disseminate the findings through regional , national , and international conferences and through peer-reviewed journals. UMIN Clinical Trials Registry ( UMIN-CTR; R000033243) registered on 8 September 2017.