  The pathogenesis leading to poor functional outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage ( aSAH) is multifactorial and not fully understood. We evaluated a machine learning approach based on easily determinable clinical and CT perfusion ( CTP) features in the course of patient admission to predict the functional outcome 6 months after ictus. Out of 630 consecutive subarachnoid haemorrhage patients ( 2008-2015) , 147 ( mean age 54.3 , 66.7 % women) were retrospectively included ( Inclusion: aSAH , admission within 24 h of ictus , CTP within 24 h of admission , documented modified Rankin scale ( mRS) grades after 6 months. Exclusion: occlusive therapy before first CTP , previous aSAH , CTP not evaluable). A random forests model with conditional inference trees was optimised and trained on sex , age , World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies ( WFNS) and modified Fisher grades , aneurysm<disease> in anterior vs. posterior circulation , early external ventricular drainage ( EVD) , as well as MTT and T In the final model , using 200 trees and the synthetic minority oversampling technique , median balanced accuracy was 84.4 % ( SD 0.7) over the training folds and 70.9 % ( SD 1.2) over the validation folds. The five most important features were the modified Fisher grade , age , MTT range , WFNS and early EVD. A random forests model trained on easily determinable features in the course of patient admission can predict the functional outcome 6 months after aSAH with considerable accuracy. • Features determinable in the course of admission of a patient with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage ( aSAH) can predict the functional outcome 6 months after the occurrence of aSAH. • The top five predictive features were the modified Fisher grade , age , the mean transit time ( MTT) range from computed tomography perfusion ( CTP) , the WFNS grade and the early necessity for an external ventricular drainage ( EVD). • The range between the minimum and the maximum MTT may prove to be a valuable biomarker for detrimental functional outcome.