  The aim of the present study was to evaluate the diagnostic performances of strain and wall thickening analysis in discriminating among three types of myocardium after acute myocardial infarction: non-infarcted myocardium , infarcted myocardium without microvascular obstruction ( MVO) and infarcted myocardium with MVO. Seventy-one patients with a successfully treated ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction underwent cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging at 2-6 days after reperfusion. The imaging protocol included conventional cine imaging , myocardial tissue tagging and late gadolinium enhancement. Regional circumferential and radial strain and associated strain rates were analyzed in a 16-segment model as were the absolute and relative wall thickening. Hyperenhancement was detected in 418 ( 38 %) of 1096 segments and was accompanied by MVO in 145 ( 35 %) of hyperenhanced segments. Wall thickening , circumferential and radial strain were all significantly diminished in segments with hyperenhancement and decreased even further if MVO was also present ( all p < 0.001). Peak circumferential strain ( CS) surpassed all other strain and wall thickening parameters in its ability to discriminate between hyperenhanced and non-enhanced myocardium ( all p < 0.05). Furthermore , CS was superior to both absolute and relative wall thickening in differentiating infarcted segments with MVO from infarcted segments without MVO ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.001 , respectively). Strain analysis is superior to wall thickening in differentiating between non-infarcted myocardium , infarcted myocardium without MVO and infarcted myocardium with MVO. Peak circumferential strain is the most accurate marker of regional function. • CMR can quantify regional myocardial function by analysis of wall thickening on cine images and strain analysis of tissue tagged images. • Strain analysis is superior to wall thickening in differentiating between different degrees of myocardial injury after acute myocardial infarction. • Peak circumferential strain is the most accurate marker of regional function.