  Artificial nest boxes are critical nesting sites for secondary cavity-nesting birds; however , they are often placed near roadways and in urban areas that experience noise pollution and other human-caused stressors. Recent correlative studies document both negative and positive influences of noise pollution on reproductive success. Additionally , observational studies have not determined which stage of the breeding process is most vulnerable to noise pollution- settlement , incubation , and/or provisioning. Here , we controlled for possible effects from non-random settlement and eliminated potential effects of roadways , such as collisions and chemical and light pollution , by experimentally introducing traffic noise into nest boxes after clutch initiation in two secondary-cavity nesting bird species. We found no evidence for an influence of noise on clutch size , brood size , number of fledglings or overall nest success in western bluebirds ( Sialia mexicana<pathogen>). In contrast , we found that ash-throated flycatcher ( Myiarchus cinerascens) nests exposed to noise had lower reproductive success than quiet nests due to higher rates of abandonment at the incubation stage. Our results match recent research demonstrating that ash-throated flycatchers avoid energy-sector noise in their nest placement and , when they do nest in noise , experience stress hormone dysregulation and fitness costs. The lack of a response among western bluebirds differs from reported declines in reproductive success due to exposure to energy-sector noise; however , the absence of a response matches the response seen in other species using an in-box noise playback experiment. These results suggest that in-box noise exposure experiments may be appropriate for assessing noise impacts at the nest , and through some pathways ( e.g. , direct effects of noise on nestlings) , but do not capture other ways in which noise can negatively affect birds during the breeding season that may ultimately cause declines in fitness. Additionally , although manipulative experiments that examine the influence of a single anthropogenic stressor on a single life stage can help reveal causal pathways , urban and other human-dominated environments are characterized by many stressors and future studies should seek to understand how noise interacts with other stressors to impact birds and other wildlife. Finally , in light of mounting evidence demonstrating declines in reproductive success due to noise , our results suggest that nest box placement near roads may be counterproductive to efforts to bolster population densities of some species.