  Neurologic deterioration is the primary distinctive complication after revascularization surgery in patients with moyamoya disease ( MMD). The present study investigated the risk factors for neurologic deterioration after combined direct and indirect revascularization in patients with MMD. A retrospective review of 123 patients with MMD undergoing 138 combined direct and indirect revascularization procedures was performed. Demographics , clinical manifestation , medical history , neurologic deterioration complications , and relevant information of the operation were recorded. There were 25 ( 18.12 %) postoperative neurologic deterioration complications ( 13 reversible neurologic deficits , 9 infarctions with neurologic sequelae , and 3 hemorrhages<symptom>). Preoperative multiple symptom episodes and one-staged bilateral revascularization were significantly correlated with postoperative neurologic deterioration complications ( P < 0.05 and P < 0.01 , respectively). The incidence rate ( 26.39 %) of postoperative neurologic deterioration in ischemic MMDs was significantly greater than hemorrhagic MMDs ( 7.69 %; P < 0.01) In total , 34.78 % of patients with transient ischemic attack onset and 22.45 % of patients with infarction onset suffered from postoperative neurologic deterioration , and there was no significant difference between them ( P > 0.05). Postoperative neurologic deterioration complications had no significant correlation with sex , age at the time of surgery , type of surgical procedure , unilateral MMD or not , interval between the last attack and operation , and history of thyroid disease , hypertension , and autoimmune disease. Preoperative multiple symptom episodes and one-staged bilateral revascularization are risk factors associated with postoperative neurologic deterioration in patients with MMD. Therefore , 2 unilateral revascularization procedures performed successively rather than one-staged bilateral revascularization procedures should be performed in patients with bilateral MMD.