  To determine the post-curing in six commercial contemporary resin-based composites ( RBCs) using axial shrinkage , the degree of conversion , and Vickers hardness. Five Bulk Fill and one conventional RBCs from three companies were selected with a wide range of filler volume content. The axial shrinkage of samples that were 1.00 mm thick by 9-10mm diameter was measured using a modified bonded disk method over a time between 15h and 19h at temperatures of 26 °C and 34 °C ( mouth<symptom> temperature). The degree of conversion ( DC) was collected continuously for 10 min using mid-infrared spectroscopy in the attenuated total reflectance geometry. Vickers hardness was measured at 1h post-irradiation using a load of 300gf. For all three tests , the samples were irradiated at five exposure times , 20 , 5 , 3 , 1.5 and 1s with a light curing unit radiant exitance of 1.1 W/cm After light exposure , the axial shrinkage and degree of conversion exhibited a functional time dependence that was proportional to the logarithm of time. This suggests an out-of-equilibrium polymer composite glass that is transitioning to thermal equilibrium. At a sufficiently long time and among the RBCs investigated , the shrinkage related physical aging rate was found to vary between 1.34 and 2.00 μm/log ( t). The rate was a function of the filler content. Furthermore , 15h after light exposure , the post-curing shrinkage was estimated to be an additional 22.5 % relative to the shrinkage at 100s for one RBC at T = 34 °C. The hardness in the photo-cured RBC was varied by using different light exposure times. The first two experimental techniques show that the higher the initial DC 10 min after light exposure , the smaller is the post-curing shrinkage related and DC related physical aging rates. A direct correlation was observed between the shrinkage related and the DC related physical aging rates. Post-curing shrinkage should be evaluated for longer than 1h. The post-curing shrinkage 15h after light exposure in dental RBCs can be appreciable. The long-term development of built-in stress within the tooth wall structure may shorten the restoration 's lifespan.