  Despite many antiepileptic drugs ( AEDs) are available to treat epilepsy , there is still about 30 % of epilepsy patients inadequately treated with these AEDs. For these patients , polytherapy with two or three AEDs to fully control their seizure<symptom> attacks is recommended. Unfortunately , polytherapy is always associated with drug interactions , whose nature may be beneficial , neutral or unfavorable. To determine a type of interaction for the combination of three AEDs ( i.e. , phenobarbital ( PB) , phenytoin ( PHT) and pregabalin ( PGB)) at the fixed-ratio of 1:1:1 , we used a model of tonic-clonic seizures<symptom> in male albino Swiss mice. Tonic-clonic seizures<symptom> in mice were evoked by a current ( sine-wave , 25 mA , 500 V , 0.2 s stimulus duration) delivered via auricular electrodes. The anticonvulsant effects of the three-drug combination ( PB , PHT and PGB) in terms of suppression of tonic-clonic seizures<symptom> in mice were assessed with type I isobolographic analysis. Potential acute side effects for the mixture of PB , PHT and PGB along with total brain concentrations of the AEDs were determined to confirm pharmacodynamic nature of observed interaction. The three-drug combination of PB , PHT and PGB ( at the fixed-ratio of 1:1:1) exerted synergistic interaction ( at P < 0.01) in the mouse model of tonic-clonic seizures<symptom>. The combination of PB , PHT and PGB did not produce any side effects in experimental animals , when measuring long-term memory , muscular strength and motor coordination. The measurement of total brain concentrations of PB , PHT and PGB was conducted to confirm that none of the three AEDs significantly influenced total brain concentrations ( pharmacokinetic profiles) of the other co-administered AEDs in mice. The synergistic pharmacodynamic interaction for the combination of PB , PHT and PGB observed in this preclinical study can be translated into clinical settings and this favorable AED combination is worthy of being recommended to some patients with refractory epilepsy.