  The role of follow-up venous duplex ultrasound ( DUS) after acute lower extremity deep vein thrombosis ( DVT) remains unclear , yet it is commonly performed. We aimed to clarify the role of follow-up DUS. Our primary objective was to determine the association between the presence of residual venous obstruction ( RVO) on DUS and DVT recurrence or propagation ( rDVT). Secondary objectives included finding risk factors associated with RVO and rDVT. We conducted a retrospective study of patients diagnosed with DVT on DUS from January 1 , 2011 , to December 31 , 2013 , that received a follow-up DUS. Patient demographics , risk factors , medications , and DUS findings were recorded. Ten segments from the common femoral to distal calf veins were checked for the presence of RVO , DVT propagation , and recurrence. RVO was defined as any nonacute venous obstruction with more than 40 % of luminal diameter remaining during compression or the presence of chronic post-thrombotic occlusive disease. rDVT was measured as either a new acute DVT in the previously involved segment , or involvement of a new segment in the same extremity. A total of 185 lower extremities representing 156 patients met the inclusion criteria. RVO was noted in 61.1 % of limbs. The 3-year rDVT rate was 10.3 %. Patients with recurrent venous thromboembolism or thrombophilia had a higher risk of developing RVO ( odds ratio ( OR) , 2.89 , P < .01; OR , 4.39 , P = .04 , respectively). Extremities with larger clot burden had an increased risk of RVO on follow-up DUS ( OR , 1.25 per segment; P < .01). The presence and degree of RVO on follow-up DUS had an increased risk of rDVT on subsequent DUS ( OR , 3.90 , P = .04; OR , 1.21 per segment , P = .04 , respectively). Limbs with complete resolution of DVT by DUS had a significantly decreased risk of rDVT ( OR , 0.26; P = .04). Extremities with larger initial clot burden exhibited an increased risk of subsequent RVO. The presence of RVO and , interestingly , the number of involved segments on follow-up DUS increased the risk of rDVT. Our results suggest that the presence of residual disease and increased RVO burden on follow-up DUS after an acute DVT may identify those patients who are at an increased risk for rDVT and may help guide the duration of anticoagulation therapy.