  Acute-stroke prognostic indicators remain controversial including relationship of urinary incontinence with outcomes in cognition , transfers , and discharge destination. To examine if urinary incontinence is associated with inpatient-rehabilitation ( IR) outcomes in cognition , transfers , and discharge destinations. Retrospective observational study of 303 of 579 ( 52 %) acute-stroke patients admitted to IR 2012-2015 with complete urinary incontinence ( total assistance for bladder management). Discharge Functional Independence Measure ( FIM) scores were correlated for continence , cognition , transfers- ( bed/chair/wheelchair) , and discharge destination. Patients were admitted to IR on average 7.4 days after acute stroke. Average length-of-stay in IR was 14 days. At discharge 118 of 303 ( 39 %) remained urinary incontinent ( total assistance). Continence/bladder-management FIM scores at discharge were associated with cognition FIM scores at discharge ( chi square = 105.8; P < .0001) , and associated with transfer FIM scores at discharge ( chi square = 153.1; P < .0001). Patients total to moderate assistance for continence at discharge included greater percentage that were dependent to moderate assistance for cognition and transfers than those minimal assistance to independent for continence. Continence/bladder-management FIM scores at discharge were associated with discharge disposition destinations ( chi square = 29.98; P < .002). Patients total to moderate assistance for continence at discharge included greater percentage of acute care transfers , and skilled-nursing-facility dispositions , than patients that recovered to minimal assist to independent for continence. Urinary-incontinence recovery to minimal assistance to independent was associated with a home/community disposition rate of 82 %. 52 % stroke patients were total assistance with bladder management for urinary incontinence on IR admission. Partial to complete continence recovery occurred in 61 %. Continence/bladder-management FIM scores at discharge were associated with cognition and transfer FIM scores , and discharge destinations.