  The safe use and design of nanoparticles ( NPs) ask for a comprehensive interpretation of their potentially adverse effects on ( micro) organisms. In this respect , the prior assessment of the interactions experienced by NPs in the vicinity of- and in contact with- complex biological surfaces is mandatory. It requires the development of suitable techniques for deciphering the processes that govern nano-bio interactions when a single organism is exposed to an extremely low dose of NPs. Here , we used atomic force spectroscopy ( AFM)- based force measurements to investigate at the nanoscale the interactions between carboxylate-terminated polyamidoamine ( PAMAM) nanodendrimers ( radius ca. 4.5 nm) and two bacteria with very distinct surface properties , Escherichia<pathogen> coli<pathogen> and Lactococcus<pathogen> lactis<pathogen> The zwitterionic nanodendrimers exhibit a negative peripheral surface charge and/or a positive intraparticulate core depending on the solution pH and salt concentration. Following an original strategy according to which a single dendrimer NP is grafted at the very apex of the AFM tip , the density and localization of NP binding sites are probed at the surface of E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> and L.<pathogen> lactis<pathogen> mutants expressing different cell surface structures ( presence/absence of the O-antigen of the lipopolysaccharides ( LPS) or of a polysaccharide pellicle). In line with electrokinetic analysis , AFM force measurements evidence that adhesion of NPs onto pellicle-decorated L.<pathogen> lactis<pathogen> is governed by their underlying electrostatic interactions as controlled by the pH-dependent charge of the peripheral and internal NP components , and the negatively-charged cell surface. In contrast , the presence of the O-antigen on E.<pathogen> coli<pathogen> systematically suppresses the adhesion of nanodendrimers onto cells , may the apparent NP surface charge be determined by the peripheral carboxylate groups or by the internal amine functions. Altogether , this work highlights the differentiated roles played by surface polysaccharides in mediating NP attachment to Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. It further demonstrates that the assessment of NP bioadhesion features requires a critical analysis of the electrostatic contributions stemming from the various structures composing the stratified cell envelope , and those originating from the bulk and surface NP components. The joint use of electrokinetics and AFM provides a valuable option for rapidly addressing the binding propensity of NPs to microorganisms , as urgently needed in NP risk assessments.