  To quantitatively assess 12-month prostate volume ( PV) reduction based on T2-weighted MRI and immediate post-treatment contrast-enhanced MRI non-perfused volume ( NPV) , and to compare measurements with predictions of acute and delayed ablation volumes based on MR-thermometry ( MR-t) , in a central radiology review of the Phase I clinical trial of MRI-guided transurethral ultrasound ablation ( TULSA) in patients with localized prostate cancer. Treatment day MRI and 12-month follow-up MRI and biopsy were available for central radiology review in 29 of 30 patients from the published institutional review board-approved , prospective , multi-centre , single-arm Phase I clinical trial of TULSA. Viable PV at 12 months was measured as the remaining PV on T2-weighted MRI , less 12-month NPV , scaled by the fraction of fibrosis<disease> in 12-month biopsy cores. Reduction of viable PV was compared to predictions based on the fraction of the prostate covered by the MR-t derived acute thermal ablation volume ( ATAV , 55 °C isotherm) , delayed thermal ablation volume ( DTAV , 240 cumulative equivalent minutes at 43 °C thermal dose isocontour) and treatment-day NPV. We also report linear and volumetric comparisons between metrics. After TULSA , the median 12-month reduction in viable PV was 88 %. DTAV predicted a reduction of 90 %. Treatment day NPV predicted only 53 % volume reduction , and underestimated ATAV and DTAV by 36 % and 51 %. Quantitative volumetry of the TULSA phase I MR and biopsy data identifies DTAV ( 240 CEM43 thermal dose boundary) as a useful predictor of viable prostate tissue reduction at 12 months. Immediate post-treatment NPV underestimates tissue ablation. • MRI-guided transurethral ultrasound ablation ( TULSA) achieved an 88 % reduction of viable prostate tissue volume at 12 months , in excellent agreement with expectation from thermal dose calculations. • Non-perfused volume on immediate post-treatment contrast-enhanced MRI represents only 64 % of the acute thermal ablation volume ( ATAV) , and reports only 60 % ( 53 % instead of 88 % achieved) of the reduction in viable prostate tissue volume at 12 months. • MR-thermometry-based predictions of 12-month prostate volume reduction based on 240 cumulative equivalent minute thermal dose volume are in excellent agreement with reduction in viable prostate tissue volume measured on pre- and 12-month post-treatment T2w-MRI.