  Thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP) is a cytokine that plays diverse roles in the regulation of immune responses. However , a detailed understanding of the TSLP signaling pathway in asthma remains elusive. In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of the TSLP signaling pathway in asthma and its effect on airway inflammation<symptom> and remodeling. Forty Sprague Dawley ( SD) rats were evenly classified into control , asthma , IgG2a mAb and anti-TSLP mAb groups. Ovalbumin ( OVA)- induced asthma models were successfully established. Blood , bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF) and lung tissue samples were prepared. Total BALF leukocytes were counted , and the proportions of different leukocyte types were determined. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry were performed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of TSLP , OX40L , α-smooth muscle actin ( α-SMA , a marker of airway remodeling in asthma) and collagen I in the plasma. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA) was carried out to measure the concentrations of TSLP , OX40L , and other inflammatory factors , such as interferon ( IFN)- γ , interleukin ( IL) -4 , IL-5 and IL-13 , in the plasma. Compared with the control group , there were more leukocytes , increased EOS and LYM proportions , higher Underwood and PAS scores , increased WTt , WTm , WAt/A0 , WAm/WAt , WTt/R0 , WTm/WTt , TSLP , OX40L , a-SMA and collagen I mRNA and protein levels , and higher SLP , OX40L , IL-4 , IL-5 and IL-13 levels , but lower MON proportions and IFN-γ levels in the asthma and IgG2a mAb groups. Compared with the asthma and IgG2a mAb groups , there were less leukocytes , decreased EOS and LYM proportions , lower Underwood and PAS scores , decreased WTt , WTm , WAt/A0 , WAm/WAt , WTt/R0 , WTm/WTt , TSLP , OX40L , a-SMA and Collagen I mRNA and protein levels , and lower levels of SLP , OX40L , IL-4 , IL-5 and IL-13 , but higher MON proportions and IFN-γ levels in the anti-TSLP mAb group. WTm and WTt were positively associated with the TSLP , OX40L , α-SMA and collagen-I levels in the rat lung tissues. The results indicate that TSLP may be an important contributor for asthma development as TSLP signaling blockade attenuates airway inflammation<symptom> and remodeling in asthmatic rats.