  To analyze an expression pattern of the steroid and peptide hormone receptors , metabolic enzymes and EMT-related genes in prostate tumors in relation to the presence of the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion; and to examine a putative correlation between gene expression and clinical characteristics , to define the molecular subtypes of prostate cancer. The relative gene expression ( RE) of 33 transcripts ( 27 genes) and the presence/absence of the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion were analyzed by a quantitative PCR. 37 prostate cancer tissues ( T) paired with conventionally normal prostate tissue ( CNT) and 21 samples of prostate adenomas were investigated. RE changes were calculated , using different protocols of statistics. We demonstrated differences in RE of seven genes between tumors and CNT , as was calculated , using the 2-ΔCT model and the Wilcoxon matched paired test. Five genes ( ESR1 , KRT18 , MKI67 , MMP9 , PCA3) showed altered expression in adenocarcinomas , in which the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion was detected. Two genes ( INSR , isoform B and HOTAIR) expressed differently in tumors without fusion. Comparison of the gene expression pattern in adenomas , CNT and adenocarcinomas demonstrated that in adenocarcinomas , bearing the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion , genes KRT18 , PCA3 , and SCHLAP1 expressed differently. At the same time , we detected differences in RE of AR ( isoform 2) , MMP9 , PRLR and HOTAIR in adenocarcinomas without the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion. Two genes ( ESR1 and SRD5A2) showed differences in RE in both adenocarcinoma groups. Fourteen genes , namely AR ( isoforms 1 and 2) , CDH1 , OCLN , NKX3-1 , XIAP , GCR ( ins AG) , INSR ( isoform A) , IGF1R , IGF1R tr , PRLR , PRL , VDR and SRD5A2 showed correlation between RE and tumor stage. RE of four genes ( CDH2 , ESR2 , VDR and SRD5A2) correlated with differentiation status of tumors ( Gleason score). Using the K-means clustering , we could cluster adenocarcinomas in three groups , according to gene expression profiles. A specific subtype of prostate tumors is characterized by the activated ERG signaling , due to the presence of TMPRSS2/ERG fusion , and also by high levels of the androgen receptor , prolactin , IGF , INSR and PCA3. We have found the specific differences in expression of the steroid and peptide hormone receptors , metabolic enzymes and EMT-related genes , depending on the pre-sence/absence of the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion in prostate adenocarcinomas , CNT and adenomas. We showed three different gene expression profiles of prostate adenocarcinomas. One of them is characteristic for adenocarcinomas with the TMPRSS2/ERG fusion. Further experiments are needed to confirm these data in a larger cohort of patients.