  Endometriosis is a common disease in women of reproductive age. Characteristics of endometriosis include invasion , metastasis , and recurrence , which are similar to those of malignant tumors. However , the etiology and pathogenesis of endometriosis are still not clear. This study aims to explore the mechanism of 3,6-dihydroxyflavone ( 3,6-DHF) in the development of endometriosis. Primary cultured ovarian ectopic endometrial stromal cells ( OvESCs) were utilized as the in vitro model of endometriosis. OvESCs were treated with different concentrations of 3,6-DHF. The expressions of proteins related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT) and Notch signal pathway were detected by Western blot. The mRNA expressions of related genes were detected by quantitative Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction ( qRT-PCR). The viability of treated cells was detected by transwell assay. The impact of 3,6-DHF on ectopic lesions<symptom> was explored after the animal model of endometriosis was successfully established. With the increased concentration of 3,6-DHF in OvESCs , the protein and mRNA expressions of E-cadherin were gradually increased , while the protein and mRNA expressions of N-cadherin , Twist , Snail , and Slug were decreased. 3,6-DHF treatment inhibited the migration and invasion ability of OvESCs in a dose-dependent manner. In the endometriosis model of severe combined immunodeficient ( SCID) mice , lesions<symptom> in the 3,6-DHF treated group were significantly smaller than those of the control group. The same changes were found in the endometriosis model of Sprague Dawley ( SD) rats. Protein expressions of Notch1 , NICD , and Hes-1 in OvESCs were inhibited by 3,6-DHF in a dose-dependent manner. 3,6-DHF can inhibit the binding of NICD-CSL-MAML complex in OvESCs , thereby inhibiting the expressions of proteins related to Notch signaling pathway in vitro. 3,6-DHF can inhibit the development of EMT , migration , and invasion of endometrial stromal cells by inhibiting the Notch signaling pathway.