  A major goal in systems neuroscience is to determine the causal relationship between neural activity and behavior. To this end , methods that combine monitoring neural activity , behavioral tracking , and targeted manipulation of neurons in closed-loop are powerful tools. However , commercial systems that allow these types of experiments are usually expensive and rely on non-standardized data formats and proprietary software which may hinder user-modifications for specific needs. In order to promote reproducibility and data-sharing in science , transparent software and standardized data formats are an advantage. Here , we present an open source , low-cost , adaptable , and easy to set-up system for combined behavioral tracking , electrophysiology , and closed-loop stimulation. Based on the Open Ephys system ( www.open-ephys.org) we developed multiple modules to include real-time tracking and behavior-based closed-loop stimulation. We describe the equipment and provide a step-by-step guide to set up the system. Combining the open source software Bonsai ( bonsai-rx.org) for analyzing camera images in real time with the newly developed modules in Open Ephys , we acquire position information , visualize tracking , and perform tracking-based closed-loop stimulation experiments. To analyze the acquired data we provide an open source file reading package in Python. The system robustly visualizes real-time tracking and reliably recovers tracking information recorded from a range of sampling frequencies ( 30-1000 Hz). We combined electrophysiology with the newly-developed tracking modules in Open Ephys to record place cell and grid cell activity in the hippocampus and in the medial entorhinal cortex , respectively. Moreover , we present a case in which we used the system for closed-loop optogenetic stimulation of entorhinal grid cells. Expanding the Open Ephys system to include animal tracking and behavior-based closed-loop stimulation extends the availability of high-quality , low-cost experimental setup within standardized data formats serving the neuroscience community.