  In patients with acute severe ulcerative colitis<disease> ( ASUC) , standard infliximab induction therapy has modest efficacy. There are limited data on the short-term or long-term efficacy of accelerated infliximab induction therapy for these patients. In a retrospective study , we collected data from 213 patients with steroid refractory ASUC who received infliximab rescue therapy at 3 centers , from 2005 through 2017. Patients were classified that received standard therapy ( 5 mg/kg infliximab at weeks 0 , 2 , and 6) or accelerated therapy ( > 5 mg/kg infliximab at shorter intervals). The primary outcome was colectomy in-hospital and at 3 , 6 , 12 , and 24 months. Multivariable regression models were adjusted for relevant confounders. We also performed a meta-analysis of published effects of standard vs accelerated infliximab treatment of ASUC. In the retrospective analysis , 81 patients received accelerated infliximab therapy and 132 received standard infliximab therapy. There were no differences in characteristics between the groups , including levels of C-reactive protein or albumin. Similar proportions of patients in each group underwent in-hospital colectomy ( 9 % receiving accelerated therapy vs 8 % receiving standard therapy; adjusted odds ratio , 1.35; 95 % CI , 0.38-4.82). There was no significant difference between groups in proportions that underwent colectomy at 3 , 6 , 12 , or 24 months ( P > .20 for all comparisons). Among those in the accelerated group , an initial dose of 10 mg/kg was associated with a lower rate of colectomy compared to patients who initially received 5 mg/kg followed by subsequent doses of 5mg/kg or higher. Our systematic review identified 7 studies ( 181 patients receiving accelerated infliximab and 436 receiving standard infliximab) and found no significant differences in short- or long-term outcomes. In a retrospective study and meta-analysis , we found no association between accelerated infliximab induction therapy and lower rates of colectomy in patients with ASUC , compared to standard induction therapy. However , confounding by disease severity can not be excluded. Randomized trials are warranted to compare these treatment strategies.