  Increasing evidence indicated that small nucleolar RNA host gene 16 ( SNHG16) acted as a key regulator in the proliferation and metastasis of several cancers , including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC). In this research , we aimed to explore biological functions , clinical significance and the underlying molecular mechanisms of SNHG16 in ESCC. qRT-PCR was performed to examine the expression of SNHG16 in ESCC cell lines and clinical ESCC tissue samples. The association of SNHG16 expression with clinicopathological factors and prognosis was statistically analyzed. Cell Counting Kit-8 , flow cytometry , and transwell invasion assays were performed to determine the effect of SNHG16 in the regulation of biological behaviors of ESCC cells. Luciferase assay and Western blot were performed to determine the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway RESULTS: We observed that SNHG16 expression levels were significantly upregulated in ESCC tissues and cell lines compared with the corresponding normal tissues and normal esophageal cell line , respectively. In addition , increased expression of SNHG16 were strongly linked to tumor stage ( p = 0.019) , lymph nodes metastasis ( p = 0.007) and clinical stage ( p = 0.026). Kaplan-Meier assay showed that the survival time of patients with high SNHG16 expression was significantly shorter than those with low SNHG16 expression ( p = 0.0017). Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that high SNHG16 expression in ESCC was an independent predictor of poor survival. Loss-of-function experiments revealed that knockdown of SNHG16 suppressed proliferation and invasion and induced apoptosis of ESCC cells. Mechanistically , Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways were actively modulated by SNHG16 in ESCC cells. Our findings reveal that SNHG16 plays an important role in ESCC proliferation/metastasis via modulating Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways and could represent a novel biomarker for predicting poor survival as well a promising therapeutic target.