  Diabetic nephropathy ( DN) is closely related to immune-mediated inflammatory damage. Pyrrosiae folium is used commonly for the urinary system diseases with a good efficacy , which contains abundant flavonoids ( SWHT). This study was performed to investigate the therapeutic effect of SWHT on DN and its effect on inflammatory response. In this study , the main active components of SWHT were identified by high performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC). The results showed that SWHT mainly contained mangiferin and isomucoside. Rat model of diabetic nephropathy ( DN) was established by feeding high glucose & high fat diet and injecting streptozocin ( STZ). Then the rats were randomly divided into control group , DN model group , positive control group , and SWHT groups ( 50 , 100 , 200 mg · kg ⁻¹ , ig). The levels of AGEs and RAGE in serum were measured by ELISA after 12 weeks of drug administration. The serum creatinine , blood urea nitrogen and total protein levels were detected by using test kit. HE staining and transmission electron microscopy were applied to observe the pathological changes and structure of renal tissue. Western blot and ELISA were used to detect the protein expression and content levels of interleukin 6 ( IL-6) , tumor necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF-α) and IL-1β in renal tissue. Results showed that SWHT significantly decreased serum AGEs and RAGE levels in DN rats; decreased serum creatinine , blood urea nitrogen and total urinary protein levels , improved renal pathological damages and reduced basement membrane thickening in DN rats. In addition , SWHT down-regulated the protein expression levels of inflammatory mediators IL-6 , TNF-α and IL-1β. The research studies indicated that SWHT component had a potential anti-diabetic nephropathy activity , and its improvement effect on pathological damages may be related to reducing inflammation<symptom>. This provides the basis for the scientific and rational application of P. folium , and also provides active components for further development of Chinese medicine for diabetic nephropathy.