  IntroductionMass gatherings are complex events that present a unique set of challenges to attendees ' health and well-being. There are numerous factors that influence the number and type of injuries and illnesses that occur at these events , including weather , event and venue type , and crowd demographics and behavior.ProblemWhile the impact of some factors , such as weather conditions and the availability of alcohol , on patient presentations at mass gatherings have been described previously , the influence of many other variables , including crowd demographics , crowd behavior , and event type , is poorly understood. Furthermore , a large number of studies reporting on the influence of these variables on patient presentations are based on anecdotal evidence at a single mass-gathering event. Data were collected by trained fieldworkers at 15 mass gatherings in South Australia and included event characteristics , crowd demographics , and weather. De-identified patient records were obtained from on-site health care providers. Data analysis included the calculation of patient proportions in each variable category , as well as the total number of patient presentations per event and the patient presentation rate ( PPR). The total number of expected attendees at the 15 mass gatherings was 303,500 , of which 146 presented to on-site health care services. The majority of patient presentations occurred at events with a mean temperature between 20 °C and 25 °C. The PPR was more than double at events with a predominantly male crowd compared to events with a more equal sex distribution. Almost 90.0 % of patient presentations occurred at events where alcohol was available. The results of the study suggest that several weather , crowd , and event variables influence the type and number of patient presentations observed at mass-gathering events. Given that the study sample size did not allow for these interactions to be quantified , further research is warranted to investigate the relationships between alcohol availability , crowd demographics , crowd mobility , venue design , and injuries and illnesses.Anikeeva O , Arbon P , Zeitz K , Bottema M , Lund A , Turris S , Steenkamp M. Patient presentation trends at 15 mass-gathering events in South Australia. Prehosp Disaster Med.