  Effects of antibiotic ( bacitracin) , anticoccidial ( narasin) , and alternative ( Bacillus<pathogen> subtilis<pathogen> and zinc) feed additives on growth performance , internal organ development , and intestinal morphology of commercial broilers with or without subclinical coccidia challenge were determined. A total of 1,344 1-day-old male Ross × Ross 708 broilers were randomly distributed into 12 treatments ( 6 diets × 2 challenge treatments , 8 replication pens/treatment) in 96 floor pens. The 6 dietary treatments were as follows: a control diet ( corn and soybean-meal basal diet) , a probiotic diet ( basal diet + Bacillus<pathogen> subtilis<pathogen> , a zinc diet ( basal diet + 100 ppm zinc) , a probiotic and zinc combined diet , an anticoccidial diet ( basal diet + narasin) , and a practical diet ( basal diet + narasin + bacitracin). On day 21 , each chick in the challenge treatment was gavaged with a 10 × dose of a commercial vaccine containing live Eimeria oocytes , whereas each chick in the non-challenge treatment was gavaged with equivalent distilled water. The subclinical coccidia challenge increased the relative weights of pancreas and decreased the ileal crypt depth of broilers at 26 d of age , increased feed conversion ratios from day 15 to 28 and 29 to 40 , and increased the relative weights of duodenum and bursa on day 54. As compared to other diets , anticoccidial and practical diets increased BW gain and decreased feed conversion ratio from day 15 to 28 , and increased the day 40 carcass weights. As compared to control diets , probiotic diets decreased BW gain and increased the mortality from day 15 to 28; however , probiotic diets did not affect the overall growth performance from day 0 to 54 or carcass yield on day 54. Growth measurements during periods of day 29 to 40 and day 41 to 54 were not affected by any feed additive. From this study , a subclinical coccidia challenge enlarged specific internal organs and compromised the feed conversion ability of broilers. Dietary Bacillus<pathogen> subtilis<pathogen> did not affect overall growth rate or carcass yield of broilers under subclinical coccidia challenge.