  The first trimester of pregnancy is characterized by continuous proliferation , invasion and differentiation of cytotrophoblasts. These processes are precisely controlled both , in space and time by molecules such as endothelin-1 ( ET-1). ET-1 is expressed in human first trimester trophoblast and is known to stimulate cytotrophoblast proliferation through endothelin A and B receptor subtypes ( ET ( A) and ET ( B)) , and cytotrophoblast invasion through ET ( B). However , temporal changes of the ET system during the first trimester of pregnancy have not been previously studied. This study tested the hypothesis that ET-1 release , ET ( A) and ET ( B) expression are increased towards the end of the first trimester of pregnancy ( weeks 10-12 vs. weeks 6-9) , resulting in increased cytotrophoblast proliferation and invasion. Tissue samples were obtained from 17 surgical pregnancy interruptions ( week 6-9: n = 9; week 10-12: n = 8). After cytotrophoblast isolation , the invasive and proliferative phenotypes were immune-separated by an alpha ( 6)- integrin antibody. Both proliferative and invasive cytotrophoblasts were cultured separately on plastic or Matrigel for 24 h. ET-1 release into the culture medium of both cytotrophoblast subtypes was measured by radioimmunoassay. ET ( A) and ET ( B) mRNA expression was measured by RT-PCR , and the ET-1 effect on cytotrophoblast proliferation and invasion was determined using proliferation and invasion assays , respectively. ET-1 release increased from early to late first trimester of pregnancy in both proliferative ( 1.8-4.5 fold) and invasive cytotrophoblasts ( 9.3-28 fold) , especially when cultured on Matrigel. This was paralleled by less ET ( B) mRNA on invasive cytotrophoblasts independent of the time period in first trimester , whereas ET ( A) expression was similar on proliferative an invasive cytotrophoblasts. Proliferation and invasion of cytotrophoblasts under control conditions decreased from early to late first trimester. ET-1 stimulated both processes at both periods with the most pronounced effect ( 7-fold) on invasion in late first trimester. The ET-1/ ET-receptor system changes between weeks 6-9 and 10-12 in pregnancy. Our data suggest an autocrine and endocrine ET-1 effect , which is stronger in late than in early first trimester of pregnancy paralleled by different stimulatory effects on trophoblast invasion and proliferation. In general , this suggests time as an additional effector of the critical processes governing placental development in the first trimester of human pregnancy.