  α-Galactosylceramide ( GalCer) is a glycolipid widely known as an activator of Natural killer T ( NKT) cells , constituting a promising adjuvant against cancer , including melanoma. However , limited clinical outcomes have been obtained so far. This study evaluated the synergy between GalCer and major histocompatibility complex ( MHC) class I and MHC class II melanoma-associated peptide antigens and the Toll-Like Receptor ( TLR) ligands CpG and monophosphoryl lipid A ( MPLA) , which we intended to maximize following their co-delivery by a nanoparticle ( NP). This is expected to improve GalCer capture by dendritic cells ( DCs) and subsequent presentation to NKT cells , and simultaneously induce an anti-tumor specific T-cell mediated immunity. The combination of GalCer with melanoma peptides and TLR ligands successfully restrained tumor growth. The tumor volume in these animals was 5-fold lower than the ones presented by mice immunized with NPs not containing GalCer. However , tumor growth was controlled at similar levels by GalCer entrapped or in its soluble form , when mixed with antigens and TLR ligands. Those two groups showed an improved infiltration of T lymphocytes into the tumor , but only GalCer-loaded nano-vaccine induced a prominent and enhanced infiltration of NKT and NK cells. In addition , splenocytes of these animals secreted levels of IFN-γ and IL-4 at least 1.5-fold and 2-fold higher , respectively , than those treated with the mixture of antigens and adjuvants in solution. Overall , the combined delivery of the NKT agonist with TLR ligands and melanoma antigens via this multivalent nano-vaccine displayed a synergistic anti-tumor immune-mediated efficacy in B16F10 melanoma mouse model. Combination of α-galactosylceramide ( GalCer) , a Natural Killer T ( NKT) cell agonist , with melanoma-associated antigens presented by MHC class I ( Melan-A: 26) and MHC class II ( gp100: 44) molecules , and Toll-like Receptor ( TLR) ligands ( MPLA and CpG) , within nanoparticle matrix induced a prominent anti-tumor immune response able to restrict melanoma growth. An enhanced infiltration of NKT and NK cells into tumor site was only achieved when the combination GalCer , antigens and TLR ligands were co-delivered by nanovaccine.