  The extent to which the genes are expressed in the cell can be simplistically defined as a function of one or more factors of the environment , lifestyle , and genetics. RNA sequencing ( RNA-Seq) is becoming a prevalent approach to quantify gene expression , and is expected to gain better insights to a number of biological and biomedical questions , compared to the DNA microarrays. Most importantly , RNA-Seq allows to quantify expression at the gene and alternative splicing isoform levels. However , leveraging the RNA-Seq data requires development of new data mining and analytics methods. Supervised machine learning methods are commonly used approaches for biological data analysis , and have recently gained attention for their applications to the RNA-Seq data. In this work , we assess the utility of supervised learning methods trained on RNA-Seq data for a diverse range of biological classification tasks. We hypothesize that the isoform-level expression data is more informative for biological classification tasks than the gene-level expression data. Our large-scale assessment is done through utilizing multiple datasets , organisms , lab groups , and RNA-Seq analysis pipelines. Overall , we performed and assessed 61 biological classification problems that leverage three independent RNA-Seq datasets and include over 2,000 samples that come from multiple organisms , lab groups , and RNA-Seq analyses. These 61 problems include predictions of the tissue type , sex , or age of the sample , healthy or cancerous phenotypes and , the pathological tumor stage for the samples from the cancerous tissue. For each classification problem , the performance of three normalization techniques and six machine learning classifiers was explored. We find that for every single classification problem , the isoform-based classifiers outperform or are comparable with gene expression based methods. The top-performing supervised learning techniques reached a near perfect classification accuracy , demonstrating the utility of supervised learning for RNA-Seq based data analysis.