  To assess the ability of renal blood oxygen level dependent ( BOLD) MRI metrics to predict post-operative renal function. We studied 152 patients who underwent laparoscopic partial nephrectomy ( LPN) and renal MRI examination including BOLD. Short-term and long-term renal function was evaluated using the glomerular filtration rate ( GFR) derived from renal scintigraphy. Renal function decline was assessed as the absolute decline ( AD) , percentage decline ( PD) and optimal renal function preservation ( OP). T2 * values were analysed in the renal cortex and medulla ipsilateral and contralateral to the tumour. Clinical characteristics and imaging metrics were evaluated using univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses. Risk factors obtained using BOLD metrics ( determined by multivariate regression) were then combined and compared with RENAL<disease> scores to predict OP. Increasing warm ischaemia time ( WIT) , resected and ischaemic volume ( RAIV) , larger tumour size , higher RENAL score and lower preoperative GFR were short-term risk factors for AD , while increasing WIT and lower preoperative GFR were significant for long-term outcomes. Increasing WIT , RAIV , lower T2 * value in the cortex and higher T2 * value in the medulla on the ipsilateral side were short-term risk factors for PD , while all of the above factors ( except WIT and RAIV) were significant for long-term outcomes. The performance of the combination of T2 * values in the cortex and medulla on the ipsilateral side to tumour in predicting OP was better than RENAL score ( AUC 0.762 vs 0.634 , p = 0.013). Renal BOLD-MRI metrics could provide useful information to the clinician in predicting post-operative renal function outcomes. • Renal fMRI metrics may be useful for prediction of renal functional outcomes and merit further study. • Renal fMRI metrics may reflect degree of baseline disease and ability to tolerate warm ischaemia. • Combination of T2 * values was better than RENAL score for predicting OP.