  Diniz , R , Del Vecchio , FB , Schaun , GZ , Oliveira , HB , Portella , EG , da Silva , ES , Formalioni , A , Campelo , PCC , Peyré-Tartaruga , LA , and Pinto , SS. Kinematic comparison of the roundhouse kick between taekwondo , karate , and muaythai. J Strength Cond Res XX ( X): 000-000 , 2018-The roundhouse kick ( RHK) is frequently executed in taekwondo , karate , and muaythai because of its high technical effectiveness during combat. The purpose of this study was to compare kinematic characteristics during RHK performance between taekwondo , karate , and muaythai athletes. Forty-seven male athletes ( 25.5 ± 4.7 years , 1.75 ± 0.1 m , and 75.8 ± 11.5 kg) volunteered to participate ( taekwondo: 17; karate: 15; and muaythai: 15). Self-selected distance from target , mean and peak fifth metatarsus linear velocity ( LV5mean; LV5peak) , mean and peak hip ( HAVmean; HAVpeak) and knee ( KAVmean; KAVpeak) angular velocities , as well as target linear acceleration ( TLA) were analyzed with a 3D video motion analysis system. Comparisons between modalities were performed with 1-way analysis of variances and Bonferroni 's post hoc test ( α = 0.05). Self-selected distance was lower in muaythai compared with taekwondo and karate ( p < 0.001). Also , karate had greater LV5mean compared with muaythai ( p = 0.001) , and muaythai showed higher HAVmean than karate ( p = 0.011). In addition , HAVpeak was greater in muaythai than in taekwondo and karate ( p < 0.001). No differences were found for KAVmean , KAVpeak , and TLA. Although it is similarly described between modalities , RHK showed distinct kinematic characteristics between taekwondo , karate , and muaythai. Based on these results , coaches and athletes can improve their RHK technique according to the specificities of each combat sport. Specifically , it is suggested that combat strategies should aim to increase the distance from the opponent during combat for muaythai athletes , whereas taekwondo and karate athletes should focus on decreasing it.