  Backgroud/Aims: Mesenchymal stromal cells ( MSCs) are a major component of the tumor microenvironment ( TME). Several studies focusing on tumor-derived MSCs have demonstrated that they exhibit a strong ability to promote the tumor epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT). However , the factors mediating these effects are poorly understood. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry assays were used to detect the expression of Gremlin1 ( GREM1) in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC) tissues. ShRNA silencing , flow cytometry , cell counting kit ( CCK8) assay , invasion assay , western blot were used to detect the effect of GREM1 in ECa109 , TE-1 cell lines and xenograft tumor models. In the current study , we found that the GREM1 was overexpressed in human ESCC tissues. The conditioned medium from mesenchymal stromal cells ( MSCs-CM) enhanced the malignancy of xenograft esophageal tumors in vivo , as well as the cell proliferation , viability and invasion of the esophageal carcinoma cell lines ECa109 and TE-1 in vitro. Furthermore , the shRNA silencing of GREM1 in MSCs ( shGREM1-MSCs) reversed the increased malignancy of the esophageal tumor in vivo , while the conditioned medium from shGREM1-MSCs ( shGREM1-MSCs-CM) affected the cell cycle and cell invasion in vitro. These processes were accompanied by the EMT in the ECa109 and TE-1 cell lines with an alteration in the expression levels of mesenchymal and epithelial markers. Furthermore , the TGF-β/BMP ( transforming growth factor-beta/bone morphogenetic protein) signaling pathway participated in the shGREM1-MSCs-CM-induced anti-tumor effect on enhanced esophageal malignancy induced by MSCs-CM treatment. Taken together , our study suggested that GREM1 delivered by MSCs promoted EMT in ESCC in vitro and in vivo , which is partly through TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway. The results provide experimental evidence to a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of esophageal cancer.