  In literature , the importance of X-linked gene dosage as a contributing factor for autoimmune diseases is generally assumed. However , little information is available on the frequency of humoral endocrine organ-specific autoimmunity in X-chromosome aneuploidies. In our preliminary study , we investigated the endocrine organ-specific humoral autoimmunity relative to four different organ-specific autoimmune diseases in a group of adult 47 , XXY KS patients and in adults 46 , XY control males ( type 1 diabetes , T1DM; Addison 's disease , AD; Hashimoto thyroiditis , HT; autoimmune chronic atrophic gastritis<disease> , AG). The aim of the present study is to evaluate the frequency of autoantibodies ( Abs) specific for T1DM , AD , HT , and AG in rarer higher grade X-chromosome aneuploidies ( HGA) and in 47 , XXY children. Samples from 192 Caucasian patients with an X-chromosome aneuploidy ( 176 patients ( 55 children , 121 adults) with 47 , XXY karyotype ( KS patients) and 16 HGA patients ( eight children , eight adults)) recruited from Sapienza , University of Rome ( 2007-2017) were tested for Abs specific for T1DM ( insulin-Abs , GAD-Abs , IA-2-Abs , Znt8-Abs) , HT ( TPO-Abs) , AD ( 21-OH-Abs) , and AG ( APC-Abs). The results were compared to those found in 213 46 , XY control subjects ( 96 children , 117 adults). Altogether humoral organ-specific immunoreactivity was found in 13 % of KS and HGA patients , with a significantly higher frequency than in the controls ( p = .008). Almost 19 % of HGA patients were positive for at least one of the organ-specific Abs investigated compared to 12.5 % of KS patients. The frequency of the overall immunoreactivity was higher in KS children than in KS adults. The frequency of diabetes-specific Abs was significantly higher in the patient cohort than in controls ( p = .005). Thyroid- and gastric-specific autoimmunity was also found in KS and HGA patients , while adrenal-specific immunoreactivity was rare. These results suggest for the first time that the risk of endocrine organ-specific humoral autoimmunity progressively increases with the severity of X-chromosome polisomy. The screening for diabetes- , thyroid- , and gastric-specific autoimmunity should be considered in clinical practice for identifying rare and classic X-chromosome aneuploid patients at risk of developing organ-specific autoimmune diseases.