  Retrospective review OBJECTIVE.: To determine reimbursement associated with an anterior discectomy and fusion ( ACDF) and the demographic factors influencing reimbursement for an ACDF. ACDF has been shown to be a cost-effective procedure. However , there has been minimal analysis of factors influencing reimbursement for this procedure. Clinical and financial data were retrospectively reviewed for 176 patients undergoing an ACDF procedure in 2013 and 2014. Patients were included if they had primary ACDF and excluded if they were treated for a traumatic cervical spine fracture , infection , failed primary procedure , front/back procedure or total disc replacement procedure. Clinical factors analyzed included number of levels fused , surgical time , length of stay in the hospital , estimated blood<symptom> loss<symptom> , implant type , Charleson Comorbidity Index ( CCI) , and pre-operative diagnosis. Payer type and reimbursement associated with physician and hospital fees were collected for each patient. A multiple linear regression model determined the factors influencing charge and reimbursement data using a backward conditional stepwise methodology. Variables were only included in multi-variate analysis if there was a significant ( p < 0.05) impact on either reimbursement within univariate analysis. One hundred and twenty-eight patients met inclusion criteria. The average reimbursement per patient was $ 24,622 ( +/- standard deviation of 14,616). The only significant factor influencing reimbursement was payer type ( p < 0.001) and length of hospital stay ( p < 0.001) and length of hospital stay ( p < 0.001) during our UNIVARIATE ANALYSIS.: These two independent multi-variate determinants of reimbursement only accounted for 18.6 % of reimbursement variability. There is substantial variability in reimbursement for ACDF procedures. Multivariate analysis indicates that payer type and length of hospital stay significantly influence reimbursement. Our model , however , only explained a small proportion of reimbursement variability indicating that factors outside our analysis may significantly affect hospital reimbursement. 3.