  Toohey , JC , Townsend , JR , Johnson , SB , Toy , AM , Vantrease , WC , Bender , D , Crimi , CC , Stowers , KL , Ruiz , MD , VanDusseldorp , TA , Feito , Y , and Mangine , GT. Effects of probiotic ( Bacillus<pathogen> subtilis<pathogen> supplementation during offseason resistance training in female Division I athletes. J Strength Cond Res XX ( X): 000-000 , 2018-We examined the effects of probiotic ( Bacillus<pathogen> subtilis<pathogen> supplementation during offseason training in collegiate athletes. Twenty-three Division I female athletes ( 19.6 ± 1.0 years , 67.5 ± 7.4 kg , and 170.6 ± 6.8 cm) participated in this study and were randomized into either a probiotic ( n = 11; DE111) or placebo ( n = 12; PL) group while counterbalancing groups for sport. Athletes completed a 10-week resistance training program during the offseason , which consisted of 3-4 workouts per week of upper- and lower-body exercises and sport-specific training. Athletes consumed DE111 ( DE111; 5 billion CFU/day) or PL supplement daily for the entire 10-week program. Before and after training , all athletes underwent 1 repetition maximum ( 1RM) strength testing ( squat , deadlift , and bench press) , performance testing ( vertical jump and pro-agility) , and isometric midthigh pull testing. Body composition ( body fat ( BF) %) was completed using BODPOD and bioelectrical impedance analysis , as well as muscle thickness ( MT) measurement of the rectus<pathogen> femoris ( RF) and vastus lateralis using ultrasonography. Separate repeated-measures analyses of variance were used to analyze all data. Significant ( p ≤ 0.05) main effects for time were observed for improved squat 1RM , deadlift 1RM , bench press 1RM , vertical jump , RF MT , and BF %. Of these , a significant group × time interaction was noted for BF % ( p = 0.015) , where greater reductions were observed in DE111 ( -2.05 ± 1.38 %) compared with PL ( -0.2 ± 1.6 %). No other group differences were observed. These data suggest that probiotic consumption in conjunction with post-workout nutrition had no effect on physical performance but may improve body composition in female Division I soccer and volleyball players after offseason training.