  Historically , outcomes of posterior cruciate ligament ( PCL) reconstructions have been less predictable and reported to yield inferior results when compared with those for anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL) reconstructions. To report on the outcomes of double-bundle PCL reconstructions ( DB PCLRs) in isolated versus combined injuries and acute versus chronic PCL reconstructions. To compare the outcomes of isolated DB PCLR with isolated ACL reconstruction. Cohort study; Level of evidence , 3. All patients who underwent a primary endoscopic DB PCLR for complete PCL tears ( grade III) between May 2010 and March 2015 were reviewed. Patient-reported outcome scores ( Tegner , Lysholm , WOMAC ( Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index) , SF-12 ( 12-item Short Form Health Survey)) and objective posterior stress radiographs were collected preoperatively and at a minimum 2 years postoperatively. A cohort subanalysis was additionally performed between isolated and combined PCL reconstruction and acute versus chronic PCL reconstruction. Patients who underwent isolated ACL reconstructions over the same inclusion period ( 2010-2015) were selected as a comparison group. One hundred patients who underwent DB PCLR were included in this study. There were 31 isolated PCL injuries , and 69 patients had concurrent combined PCL injuries requiring surgery. The mean follow-up for the PCL cohort was 2.9 years ( range , 2-6 years). The median Tegner activity score improved from 2 to 5 , Lysholm from 48 to 86 , WOMAC from 35.5 to 5 , and SF-12 Physical Component Summary from 34 to 54.8 ( all P values < .001). The mean side-to-side difference in posterior tibial translation on kneeling stress radiographs improved from 11.0 ± 3.5 mm preoperatively to 1.6 ± 2.0 mm postoperatively ( P < .001). There were no differences in postoperative functional scores between isolated PCL reconstructions and PCL-based multiligament reconstructions ( all P values > .229). There was no significant difference in the reported outcome scores between acute and chronic reconstructions ( all P values > .087) except for Tegner scores ( P < .001) and patient satisfaction ( P = .011) favoring acutely treated PCL injuries. There were no significant differences between patients who had an isolated DB PCLR and patients who underwent an isolated ACL reconstruction ( n = 141) in postoperative outcome scores ( all P values > .064). Significantly improved functional and objective outcomes were observed after anatomic DB PCLR at a mean 3 years ' follow-up , with low complication rates , regardless of concomitant ligamentous injury or timing to surgery. Additionally , contrary to previous reports , comparable subjective and functional clinical outcomes were achieved compared with an isolated ACL reconstruction control cohort.