  The strength of synaptic transmission varies during trains of presynaptic action potentials , notably because of the depletion of synaptic vesicles available for release. It has remained unclear why some synapses display depression<symptom> over time , whereas others facilitate or show a facilitation and depression<symptom> sequence. Here we compare the predictions of various synaptic models assuming that several docking/release sites are acting in parallel. These models show variation of docking site occupancy during trains of action potentials due to vesicular release and site replenishment , which give rise to changes in synaptic strength. To conform with recent studies , we assume an initial docking site occupancy of < 1 , thus permitting site occupancy to increase during action potential trains and facilitation to occur. We consider both a standard one-step model and a more elaborate model that assumes a predocked state ( two-step model). Whereas the one-step model predicts monotonic changes of synaptic strength during a train , the two-step model allows nonmonotonic changes , including the often-observed facilitation/depression sequence. Both models predict a partitioning of parameter space between initially depressing and facilitating synapses. Using data obtained from interneuron synapses in the cerebellum , we demonstrate an unusual form of depression/facilitation sequence for very high release probability after prolonged depolarization-induced transmitter release. These results indicate a depletion of predocked vesicles in the two-step model. By permitting docking site occupancy to be < 1 at rest , and by incorporating a separate predocked state , we reveal that docking site models can be expanded to mimic the large variety of time-dependent changes of synaptic strength that have been observed during action potential trains. Furthermore , the two-step model provides an effective framework to identify the specific mechanisms responsible for short-term changes in synaptic strength.