  We analyzed intraspecies genetic variability of the medicinal tinder bracket polypore , Fomes fomentarius , from the Asian part of Russia , including the Ural , Altai , Western Sayan , and Baikal regions. We used nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer ( ITS) sequence data as a standard marker for fungal DNA barcoding. In the Asian part of Russia , lineage A occurs as sublineage A2 , which differs from sublineage A1 by a single nucleotide insertion at ITS2 .3. Sublineage A2 is distributed up to Lake Baikal in the Ural , Altai , and Western Sayan regions. It can be characterized as a Eurasian sublineage of F. fomentarius. Lineage B is also represented by 2 sublineages ( B1 and B2) , which differ from each other by nucleotide sequences at ITS2 .1. Sublineage B1 is represented by a small group of isolates from Asia ( Iran , China , Nepal , South Korea) , whereas sublineage B2 mainly includes isolates from Europe ( Great Britain , Italy , Latvia , Slovakia , Slovenia) and 2 separate samples from Asia ( Iran , China); these locales compose the distribution area of F. fomentarius. In the Asian part of Russia , lineage B is represented by sublineage B2 found in the Southern Urals ( at the border between Europe and Asia) , which is the only area where sublineages A2 and B2 are present. These sublineages are characterized by different substrate spectra: sublineage A2 is predominantly associated with Betula spp. and rarely with Alnus and Larix trees , whereas sublineage B2 does not have a pronounced substrate preference and is found in basidiomes collected from Acer , Duschekia , Prunus , and Salix trees , but not Betula trees. In general , the spectrum of substrates for F. fomentarius lineages A and B in the Asian part of Russia corresponds to that in other parts of this polypore 's distribution area. Data are needed on genetic intraspecies variability ( polymorphism) in relation to pharmacological properties for further biotechnological cultivation and use of the medicinal fungus F. fomentarius.