  Hypofractionated ( > 5 fraction) stereotactic radiotherapy ( HSRT) may allow for ablative biologically equivalent dose to tumors with a lower risk of organ-at-risk ( OAR) toxicity in central thoracic tumors. Adaptive planning may further improve OAR sparing while maintaining planning target volume ( PTV) coverage. We hypothesized that mid-treatment adaptive re-planning would offer dosimetric advantages during HSRT for central thorax malignancies using magnetic resonance image-guided radiotherapy ( MR-IGRT). Twelve patients with central thorax tumors received HSRT using MR-IGRT. Clinically delivered regimens were 60Gy/12fractions or 62.5 Gy/10fractions , with low-field-MR ( 0.35 T) volumetric setup imaging acquired at each fraction. Daily GTV/OAR were retrospectively re-defined on fraction 1 , 6 , and 10 MRIs , and GTV response was recorded. Simulated initial plans prescribed a dose of 60Gy/12fx based on fraction 1 MRIs. Mid-treatment adaptive plans were created based on fraction 6 ( fx6) anatomy-of-the-day. All plans were created using an isotoxicity approach with goal 95 % PTV coverage , subject to hard OAR constraints , to represent clinically ideal OAR sparing. Plans were then compared for projected OAR sparing/PTV coverage. Patients demonstrated significant on-treatment MRI-defined GTV reduction ( median 41.8 %; range 16.7-65.7 %). At fx6 , median reduction was 26.7 %. All initial plans met OAR constraints. Initial plan application to fx6 and fx10 anatomy resulted in 8 OAR violations ( 5/13 patients) and 10 OAR violations ( 6/13 patients) , respectively. All fx6 violations persisted at fx10. Midpoint adaptive planning reversed 100 % of midpoint OAR violations and tended to reduce the magnitude of OAR violations incurred at fx10. In 40 % ( 2/5) of fractions where OAR violation resulted from initial plan application to fx6 anatomy , PTV coverage was increased concomitantly with violation reversal. Mid-treatment adaptive planning based on tumor response may be dosimetrically advantageous for sparing of surrounding critical structures in HSRT for central thorax malignancies and could be applied using either an online or offline paradigm.