  Cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis ( CV) is a lymphoproliferative disorder related to hepatitis<pathogen> C<pathogen> virus<pathogen> ( HCV<pathogen>) infection; anti-viral therapy is the first therapeutic option. CV can be incapacitating , compromising the patients ' quality of life ( QoL). In a controlled study , interferon-based therapy was associated with a lower virological response in vasculitic patients than in patients without vasculitis. Limited , uncontrolled data on direct-acting anti-virals are available. To evaluate safety , clinical efficacy , virological response and the impact of interferon-free treatment on QoL in HCV<pathogen> patients with and without mixed cryoglobulinaemia ( MC). We prospectively studied HCV<pathogen> patients with cryoglobulinaemia ( with vasculitis-CV- and without vasculitis-MC-) and without cryoglobulinaemia ( controls) , treated with direct-acting anti-virals. Hepato-virological parameters , CV clinical response and impact on QoL were assessed. One hundred and eighty-two HCV<pathogen> patients were recruited ( 85 with CV , 54 with MC and 43 controls). A sustained virological response at 12 weeks ( SVR12) was achieved in 166 ( 91.2 %) patients ( 77/85 CV , 48/54 MC , 41/43 controls). In CV SVR patients , cryocrit levels progressively decreased and clinical response progressively improved , reaching 96.7 % , 24 weeks after treatment. QoL , baseline physical and mental component summaries were lower in the CV group compared to the other groups ( P < 0.05). Scores improved in all groups , and significantly in CV patients after SVR. No significant differences in SVR rates were recorded between cryoglobulinaemic patients and controls and a high clinical and immunological efficacy was confirmed in CV , supporting the role of interferon-free therapy as the first therapeutic option. Interestingly , CV patients had worse baseline QoL than other HCV-positive groups and interferon-free therapy was effective in significantly increasing QoL , suggesting the important role of direct-acting anti-viral-based therapy in improving CV 's individual and social burden.