  Bipolar disorder is chronic and debilitating. Studies investigating resting-state functional connectivity in individuals with bipolar disorder may help to inform neurobiological models of illness. We conducted a systematic review with the following goals: to summarize the literature on resting-state functional connectivity in bipolar disorder during clinical remission ( euthymia) compared with healthy controls; to critically appraise the literature and research gaps; and to propose directions for future research. We searched PubMed/Medline , Embase , PsycINFO , CINAHL and grey literature up to April 2017. Twenty-three studies were included. The most consistent finding was the absence of differences in resting-state functional connectivity of the default mode network ( DMN) , frontoparietal network ( FPN) and salience network ( SN) between people with bipolar disorder and controls , using independent component analysis. However , 2 studies in people with bipolar disorder who were positive for psychosis history reported DMN hypoconnectivity. Studies using seed-based analysis largely reported aberrant resting-state functional connectivity with the amygdala , ventrolateral prefrontal cortex , cingulate cortex and medial prefrontal cortex in people with bipolar disorder compared with controls. Few studies used regional homogeneity or amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations. We found heterogeneity in the analysis methods used. Stability of the DMN , FPN and SN may reflect a state of remission. Further , DMN hypoconnectivity may reflect a positive history of psychosis in patients with bipolar disorder compared with controls , highlighting a potentially different neural phenotype of psychosis in people with bipolar disorder. Resting-state functional connectivity changes between the amygdala , prefrontal cortex and cingulate cortex may reflect a neural correlate of subthreshold symptoms experienced in bipolar disorder euthymia , the trait-based pathophysiology of bipolar disorder and/or a compensatory mechanism to maintain a state of euthymia.