  Insufficient neo-vascularization of in vivo implanted cell-seeded scaffold remains a major bottleneck for clinical translation of engineered bone formation. Demineralized bone matrix is an ideal bone scaffold for bone engineering due to its structural and biochemical components similar to those of native bone. We hypothesized that the microcarrier form of demineralized bone matrix favors ingrowth of vessels and bone regeneration upon in vivo implantation. In this study , a rat model of femoral vessel pedicle-based bone engineering was employed by filling the demineralized bone matrix scaffolds inside a silicone chamber that surrounded the vessel pedicles , and to compare the efficiency of vascularized bone regeneration between microcarrier demineralized bone matrix and block demineralized bone matrix. The results showed that bone<disease> marrow stem cells better adhered to microcarrier demineralized bone matrix and produced more extracellular matrices during in vitro culture. After in vivo implantation , microcarrier demineralized bone matrix seeded with bone<disease> marrow stem cells formed relatively more bone tissue than block demineralized bone matrix counterpart at three months upon histological examination. Furthermore , micro-computed tomography three-dimensional reconstruction showed that microcarrier demineralized bone matrix group regenerate significantly better and more bone tissues than block demineralized bone matrix both qualitatively and quantitatively ( p < 0.05). Moreover , micro-computed tomography reconstructed angiographic images also demonstrated significantly enhanced tissue vascularization in microcarrier demineralized bone matrix group than in block demineralized bone matrix group both qualitatively and quantitatively ( p < 0.05). Anti-CD31 immunohistochemical staining of ( micro-) vessels and semi-quantitative analysis also evidenced enhanced vascularization of regenerated bone in microcarrier demineralized bone matrix group than in block demineralized bone matrix group ( p < 0.05). In conclusion , the microcarrier form of demineralized bone matrix is an ideal bone regenerative scaffold due to its advantages of osteoinductivity and vascular induction , two essentials for in vivo bone regeneration.