  Recent evidence supports the important role of the circadian system in cancer progression in humans. The aim of the present study is to evaluate clock ( cry1 , cry2 and per2) and clock-controlled ( vascular endothelial growth factor-a , early growth response protein 1 and estrogen receptor β) gene expression in colorectal cancer and adjacent tissue and identify a possible link between survival of patients and expression of above mentioned genes. The study includes 64 patients of both sexes with previously diagnosed colorectal cancer. RNA was extracted from the tumor tissue and adjacent parts of the resected colon , and real-time PCR was used for detection of clock gene expression. Expression of cry2 and per2 was significantly downregulated in tumor tissue compared to adjacent tissues. After splitting of the cohort according to sex , we detected downregulated levels of cry2 and per2 in male patients , but not in females. Splitting of male and female sub-cohorts according to presence of metastases revealed significant donwregulation of cry2 expression in female patients without distant metastasis. Better survival rate was associated with low expression of cry2 in female patients. Moreover , we observed an increase in cry1 expression in female patients with distant metastases in tumor compared to adjacent tissue. Accordingly , women with high expression of cry1 in tumor tissue displayed worse survival , which was not observed in men. Taken together , expression of clock and clock-controlled genes in tumors of males and females clustered according to presence of distant metastases correlated with survival analysis. Studied clock-controlled genes also showed sex-dependent changes. Low expression of vegf-a in tumor correlated with better survival in men but not in women. High expression of estrogen receptor β mRNA was related to better survival in women but not in men. Low expression of vegf-a , egr1 and estrogen receptor β was associated with worse survival in women compared to men. Our data indicate sex-dependent associations between clock and clock-controlled gene expression in cancer tissue and patient 's survival prognosis.