  This prospective study of an innovative non-invasive ultrasonic cerebrovascular autoregulation ( CA) monitoring method is based on real-time measurements of intracranial blood volume ( IBV) reactions following changes in arterial blood<symptom> pressure<symptom>. In this study , we aimed to determine the clinical applicability of a non-invasive CA monitoring method by performing a prospective comparative clinical study of simultaneous invasive and non-invasive CA monitoring on intensive care patients. CA was monitored in 61 patients with severe traumatic brain injuries invasively by calculating the pressure reactivity index ( PRx) and non-invasively by calculating the volumetric reactivity index ( VRx) simultaneously. The PRx was calculated as a moving correlation coefficient between intracranial pressure and arterial blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> slow waves. The VRx was calculated as a moving correlation coefficient between arterial blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> and non-invasively-measured IBV slow waves. A linear regression between VRx and PRx averaged per patients ' monitoring session showed a significant correlation ( r = 0.843 , p < 0.001; 95 % confidence interval 0.751- 0.903). The standard deviation of the difference between VRx and PRx was 0.192; bias was- 0.065. This prospective clinical study of the non-invasive ultrasonic volumetric reactivity index VRx monitoring , based on ultrasonic time-of-flight measurements of IBV dynamics , showed significant coincidence of non-invasive VRx index with invasive PRx index. The ultrasonic time-of-flight method reflects blood volume changes inside the acoustic path , which crosses both hemispheres of the brain. This method does not reflect locally and invasively-recorded intracranial pressure slow waves , but the autoregulatory reactions of both hemispheres of the brain. Therefore , VRx can be used as a non-invasive cerebrovascular autoregulation index in the same way as PRx and can also provide information about the CA status encompassing all intracranial hemodynamics.