  Purpose Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy ( MBCT) has been shown to alleviate psychological distress in patients with cancer. However , patients experience barriers to participating in face-to-face MBCT. Individual Internet-based MBCT ( eMBCT) could be an alternative. The study aim was to compare MBCT and eMBCT with treatment as usual ( TAU) for psychological distress in patients with cancer. Patients and Methods We obtained ethical and safety approval to include 245 patients with cancer with psychological distress ( ≥ 11 on the Hospital Anxiety<symptom> and Depression<symptom> Scale) in the study. They were randomly allocated to MBCT ( n = 77) , eMBCT ( n = 90) , or TAU ( n = 78). Patients completed baseline ( T0) and postintervention ( T1) assessments. The primary outcome was psychological distress on the Hospital Anxiety<symptom> and Depression<symptom> Scale. Secondary outcomes were psychiatric diagnosis , fear of cancer recurrence , rumination , health-related quality of life , mindfulness skills , and positive mental health. Continuous outcomes were analyzed using linear mixed modeling on the intention-to-treat sample. Because both interventions were compared with TAU , the type I error rate was set at P < .025. Results Compared with TAU , patients reported significantly less psychological distress after both MBCT ( Cohen 's d , .45; P < .001) and eMBCT ( Cohen 's d , .71; P < .001). In addition , post-treatment prevalence of psychiatric diagnosis was lower with both MBCT ( 33 % improvement; P = .030) and eMBCT ( 29 % improvement; P = .076) in comparison with TAU ( 16 %) , but these changes were not statistically significant. Both interventions reduced fear of cancer recurrence and rumination , and increased mental health-related quality of life , mindfulness skills , and positive mental health compared with TAU ( all Ps < .025). Physical health-related quality of life did not improve ( P = .343). Conclusion Compared with TAU , MBCT and eMBCT were similarly effective in reducing psychological distress in a sample of distressed heterogeneous patients with cancer.