  AimTo investigate which populations of patients are considered ` vulnerable ' across varying clinical sites , and to identify the barriers encountered by these patient populations limiting optimal health. Vulnerable patient populations encounter diverse barriers that limit their ability to successfully navigate the health system , potentially resulting in poor health outcomes. Little current-day work has described types of barriers encountered by vulnerable patient populations across numerous clinical sites and settings , which is necessary to ensure health systems can begin to improve quality and disparities for all patient populations. An inductive content analysis was performed based on field-site notes and digitally recorded telephone interviews with providers/leadership at clinics/programs related to patient- and clinic-needs from January 2014 through May 2015. Using thematic analysis with grounded theory techniques , authors identified categories and themes. In total , 30 diverse clinical sites/programs including inpatient- and outpatient-based clinics providing medicine and surgery-based services were assessed through both site visits and follow-up telephone interviews. Follow-up interviews were conducted with one individual in various positions within sites/programs , including physicians ( n = 15) , registered nurses ( n = 8) , clinic managers/coordinators ( n = 2) , clinical program coordinator ( n = 1) , and care coordinator ( n = 1); one participant represented three clinical sites.FindingsIn total , 30 sites/programs ( n = 30) received both a site visit and follow-up interview. Commonly reported vulnerable patient populations included those with multiple chronic conditions , lower socioeconomic status , patients in a specific stage in the continuum of care , and patients with over- and under-utilization of resources without a clear etiology. Themes related to barriers included systems barriers ( eg , insufficiencies of care processes) , clinic barriers ( eg , lack of resources) , patient-related barriers ( eg , housing , transportation) , and provider-related barriers ( eg , inadequate time and knowledge). These results provide a framework to identify systems- and clinic-related barriers that can be used in population health management strategies aimed at improving health disparities within clinically diverse sites.