  We report the synthesis and characterisation of a HY/MgO zeolite/oxide nanocomposite material with high crystallinity and highly dispersed , highly basic MgO sites. Preparation was optimized in order to preserve sample crystallinity , to avoid the formation of mesoporosity and to minimize the formation of separate Mg-containing phases. These features were checked by means of electron microscopy , X-ray powder diffraction , porosimetry and IR spectroscopy. A highly dispersed material was obtained , comprising nanoclusters of magnesium oxide and hydroxide hosted by the microporous zeolite framework. The location and structure of the Mg-containing clusters have been studied by means of a combination of Rietveld refinement of XRPD data and high quality quantum mechanical simulations. The refinement has shown the presence of magnesium and oxygen atoms in the double six-membered ring cages , consistent with the presence of mononuclear Mg moieties. However , the composition and IR spectroscopy demonstrate that other Mg species must exist , likely located in the zeolite pores. In order to propose candidate structures for these species , several hypothetic periodic models of the material were built by placing ( MgO) n clusters in different locations of the zeolite structure , taking into account the material composition and other constraints imposed by the experimental observations. Periodic structures with P1 symmetry were optimized at the B3LYP-D */ DZVP level with the CRYSTAL code and classified according to their stability. Two families of possible sites were identified: highly solvated ( MgO) n units in narrow cavities and less coordinated clusters in the supercages. The stability of these clusters appears to be regulated by the ability of Mg2 + and O2- ions to interact with the pore walls and by the formation of Mg-OH species as result of the reaction of Mg-O couples with remaining acidic protons. The reactivity of four representative models with CO2 has been simulated at the B3LYP-D */ TZVP level. CO2 forms very stable linear end-on adducts with low coordinated Mg ions in most cases. Isolated sites give rise to bridge bidentate complexes in agreement with previous spectroscopic observations. The formation of hydrogen-carbonates is observed only on specific sites , through a process having a low adsorption energy because of the high deformation of the adsorption site.