  Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine is an effective and well tolerated artemisinin-based combination therapy that has been assessed extensively for the prevention and treatment of malaria<disease> Piperaquine , similar to several structurally related antimalarials currently used , can prolong cardiac ventricular repolarisation duration and the electrocardiographic QT interval , leading to concerns about its proarrhythmic potential. We aimed to assess the risk of potentially lethal iatrogenic ventricular arrhythmias in individuals receiving dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine. We did a systematic review and Bayesian meta-analysis. We searched clinical bibliographic databases ( last on May 24 , 2017) for studies of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in human beings. Further unpublished studies were identified with the WHO Evidence Review Group on the Cardiotoxicity of Antimalarials. We searched for articles containing `` dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine '' as title , abstract , or subject heading keywords , with synonyms and variant spellings as additional search terms. We excluded animal studies , but did not apply limits on language or publication date. Eligible studies were prospective , randomised , controlled trials or cohort studies in which individuals received at least one 3-day treatment course of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine for mass drug administration , preventive therapy , or case management of uncomplicated malaria<disease> , with follow-up over at least 3 days. At least two independent reviewers screened titles , abstracts , and full texts , agreed study eligibility , and extracted information about study and participant characteristics , adverse event surveillance methodology , dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine exposures , loss-to-follow up , and any deaths after dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine treatment into a standardised database. The risk of sudden unexplained death after dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine with 95 % credible intervals ( CI) generated by Bayesian meta-analysis was compared with the baseline rate of sudden cardiac death. Our search identified 94 eligible primary studies including data for 197 867 individuals who had received dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine: 154 505 in mass drug administration programmes; 15 188 in 14 studies of repeated courses in preventive therapies and case management of uncomplicated malaria<disease> and 28 174 as single-course treatments of uncomplicated malaria<disease> in 76 case-management studies. There was one potentially drug-related sudden unexplained death: a healthy woman aged 16 in Mozambique who developed heart palpitations several hours after the second dose of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and collapsed and died on the way to hospital ( no autopsy or ECG was done). The median pooled risk estimate of sudden unexplained death after dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was 1 in 757 950 ( 95 % CI 1 in 2 854 490 to 1 in 209 114). This risk estimate was not higher than the baseline rate of sudden cardiac death ( 0 · 7-11 · 9 per 100 000 person-years or 1 in 1 714 280 to 1 in 100 835 over a 30-day risk period). The risk of bias was low in most studies and unclear in a few. Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine was associated with a low risk of sudden unexplained death that was not higher than the baseline rate of sudden cardiac death. Concerns about repolarisation-related cardiotoxicity need not limit its current use for the prevention and treatment of malaria<disease> Wellcome Trust , UK Medical Research Council , WHO , Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , and University of Oxford.