  As part of its Single Technology Appraisal ( STA) process , the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence ( NICE) invited the manufacturer of ibrutinib ( Janssen) to submit evidence on the clinical and cost effectiveness of ibrutinib for treating Waldenström 's macroglobulinaemia ( WM). The School of Health and Related Research Technology Assessment Group at the University of Sheffield was commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group ( ERG). The ERG produced a critical review of the evidence for the clinical and cost effectiveness of ibrutinib based on the company 's submission to NICE. The clinical evidence was derived from one phase II , single-arm , open-label study of ibrutinib in adult patients with WM who had received at least one prior therapy ( Study 1118E) and an indirect comparison using a matched cohort from a retrospective European chart review of patients receiving various treatments for WM. The indirect comparison suggested a hazard ratio for progression-free survival ( PFS) of 0.25 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.11-0.57). The ERG had concerns regarding the high risk of bias in Study 1118E , the limited generalisability of the study , and the absence of randomised controlled trial evidence. The company 's Markov model assessed the cost effectiveness of ibrutinib versus rituximab/chemotherapy for patients with relapsed/refractory ( R/R) WM from the perspective of the National Health Service ( NHS) and Personal Social Services ( PSS) over a lifetime horizon. Based on the company 's original Patient Access Scheme ( PAS) , the company 's probabilistic model generated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio ( ICER) for ibrutinib versus rituximab/chemotherapy of # 58,905 per quality-adjusted life-year ( QALY) gained. Following a critique of the model , the ERG 's preferred analysis , which corrected cost errors and used the observed mortality rate from Study 1118E , generated a probabilistic ICER of # 61,219 per QALY gained. Based on this amended model , additional exploratory analyses produced ICERs for ibrutinib that were > # 60,000 per QALY gained. Subsequently , the company offered to provide ibrutinib at a price that resulted in ibrutinib being cost effective within the Cancer Drugs Fund ( CDF). The Committee recommended ibrutinib for use in the CDF as an option for treating WM in adults who have had at least one prior therapy , only if the conditions in the managed access agreement for ibrutinib are followed.