  Physical exercise has been reported to increase neurotrophin in brain tissues as hippocampus as well as increased neurotrophic level peripherally in blood plasma and might have an effect on/or affect molecular processes of energy metabolism ( and homeostasis). In this study , using quantitative proteomic analysis , we obtained a plasma protein profile from the rat with long-term moderate exercise. A total of 752 proteins were identified in the plasma. Among them , 54 proteins were significant up-regulated and 47 proteins were down-regulated in the plasma of exercise group compared with the control group. Bioinformatic analyses showed that these altered proteins are widely involved in multiple biological processes , molecular functions and cellular components , which connect with 11 signaling pathways. Interestingly , 5 up-regulated proteins Rap1b , PTPN11 , ARHGDIA , Cdc42 and YWHAE , confirmed by Western blots , are involved in the neurotrophin signaling pathway which shows the lowest P value among the identified pathways. Further analyses showed that the 5 neurotrophin-signaling-pathway-related proteins participate in two important protein-protein interaction networks associated to cell survival and apoptosis , axonal development , synapse formation and plasticity. This study provides an exercise-induced plasma protein profile , suggesting that long-term exercise enhances the proteins involved in neurotrophin signaling pathway which may contribute to health benefit. Physical activity contributes to myriad benefits on body health across the lifespan. The changes in plasma proteins after chronic moderate exercise may be used as biomarkers for health and may also play important roles in increase of cardiovascular fitness , enhancement of immune competence , prevention of obesity , decrease of risk for neurological disorders , cancer , stroke , diabetes and other metabolic disorders. Using a TMT-based proteomic method , this study identified 101 altered proteins in the plasma of rats after long-term moderate treadmill running , which may provide novel biomarkers for further investigation of the underlying mechanism of physical exercise. We confirmed that exercise enhances 5 proteins of the neurotrophin signaling pathway that may contribute to health benefits.