  Genetic counselors and clinical geneticists are often in the position of delivering difficult news ( DDN) to patients and families. Many studies show that healthcare providers require major improvement in the skills needed in DDN in a manner that is satisfactory to their patients. The purpose of this study was to assess the amount and methodology of DDN training received by genetic counselors and medical genetics residents in their training programs , such as observations of DDN or attending didactic lectures. To our knowledge , there is no previous assessment or study of DDN training in genetic counselor and medical genetics residency programs; therefore , we aim to both assess and compare the training in DDN received by genetic counselors and by genetics residents and determine whether there is a desire for recommendations on DDN training. We invited genetic counseling ( GC) and genetics residency program directors to participate in an online survey designed to assess coursework , clinical experiences , and directors ' attitudes toward teaching DDN. Response rate was 85 % ( 28/33) for GC program directors and 26 % ( 14/53) for genetics residency program directors. One hundred percent of GC and genetics residency directors who responded to the survey agreed that it is important for genetic counselors and medical geneticists to be able to deliver difficult news effectively and that training programs should formally teach students how to deliver difficult news. Six of the eight common teaching methods are used by at least 75 % of GC programs while two of eight are used by at least 75 % of genetics residency programs. Seventy-nine percent of GC and 93 % of genetics residency program directors agree that there should be recommendations on how to teach students to deliver this news. Our results show that techniques for DDN are integrated more fully into GC program curricula than genetics residency curricula. Directors of both types of programs desire recommendations and more standardized education for training students to deliver difficult news.