  Depression<symptom> is a global health problem associated with a significant public health burden and costs. Although studies on costs of diseases are being considered as an increasingly important factor for health policies , information concerning costs of inpatient care of depression<symptom> is still insufficient. Thus , the main aim of this study was to evaluate costs of hospitalization of patients treated in 2016 in psychiatric clinics in Poznan ( Poland) and in Kiel ( Germany) and to analyze treatment used in these centers. The study was conducted from September 2017 to February 2018. 545 hospital records were considered ( 187 in Poznan and 358 in Kiel). Eventually , 490 hospital records were included , 168 in Poland and 322 in Germany. In general , the costs were calculated based on the patients ' sex and diagnosis ( F32 and F33) separately and , subsequently , the outcomes were added and multiplied by the length of hospital stay , giving the cost of hospitalization. The annual cost of inpatient care of depression<symptom> in 2016 was EUR 491,067.19 ( ( Formula: see text)) in Poznan and EUR 2,847,991.00 ( Formula: see text) in Kiel. In Poznan , hospitalization was underfunded reaching EUR 183,042.55 ( 37.27 % of total costs in Poznan). In Poznan , the most frequently prescribed medicine was quetiapine , followed by olanzapine and venlafaxine , whereas in Kiel it was venlafaxine , followed by mirtazapine and promethazine. Although non-pharmacological therapies were commonly used in both centers , in Kiel this type of treatment was better structured. The study confirms the degree of the economic burden of inpatient care of depression<symptom> The underfunding of mental health revealed , emphasizes the need for urgent amendment of organization and funding of mental health care in Poland. Patients in Poznan were hospitalized on average 10 days longer than in Kiel , thus a reduction of length of hospitalization in Poznan seems possible. Although pharmacotherapy seemed to be comprehensive in both centers , there were some differences between Poznan and Kiel. Access to non-pharmacological therapies during outpatient care was limited in Poznan , however , compared to Kiel.