  Physical inactivity is estimated to be the fourth leading cause of global mortality. Strategies to increase physical activity ( PA) increasingly emphasize environmental and policy changes including the modification of neighborhood environments to promote walking and other forms of healthy activity. Open Streets ( OS) initiatives , an important and growing strategy to modify neighborhood environments for PA , create temporary parks for recreational activity by closing streets to motor vehicle traffic , thereby offering health and community building benefits. We used the Stanford Neighborhood Discovery Tool ( DT)- photo/voice software on a tablet-to train neighborhood residents to act as `` citizen scientist '' observers of the local built environment on a non-event day and during an OS initiative. The purposes of this project were as follows: ( 1) to assess adult residents ' perceptions of neighborhood characteristics of the OS initiative in three socioeconomically diverse sites and ( 2) to test the DT for use in three international urban settings with OS initiatives; Bogota , Colombia; San Francisco , USA; and Temuco , Chile , among a multigenerational , multiethnic sample of adults including , for the first time , a vulnerable population of homeless adults ( Bogota). Using the DT , participants walked an OS route taking photos and recording reasons for the photos , then completed a 25-item demographic/environmental observation survey and a 16-item Reflection Survey on perceived environmental changes. A total of 18 themes were reported by participants with areas of overlapping themes ( e.g. , Community and Social Connectedness) and areas where a single site reported a theme ( e.g. , Social Isolation in Older Adults). Ten of the 18 themes were identified by at least two sites including `` Bike Resources '' and `` Services '' , indicating the value of programming at OS initiatives. The themes of `` Festive Environment '' and `` Family Friendly Environment '' reflect the quality of the overall environment for participants. Four themes ( Community and Social Connectedness , Family Friendly Environment , PA , and Safety) were reported by all sites. Three of the four unifying themes were also ranked among the highest reported categories of `` seemed better '' on the Reflection Survey ( Ease of Walking , Overall Safety of Neighborhood , and Friendliness of Environment) , providing additional confirmation of the shared experience of social , health , and psychological benefits from OS initiatives. OS initiatives offer a global strategy for increasing neighborhood opportunities for PA and a potential site for training citizen scientists to document environmental influences on PA..