  Reinforcement learning describes the process by which during a series of trial-and-error attempts , actions that culminate in reward are reinforced , becoming more likely to be chosen in similar circumstances. When decisions are based on sensory stimuli , an association is formed between the stimulus , the action and the reward. Computational , behavioral and neurobiological accounts of this process successfully explain simple learning of stimuli that differ in one aspect , or along a single stimulus dimension. However , when stimuli may vary across several dimensions , identifying which features are relevant for the reward is not trivial , and the underlying cognitive process is poorly understood. To study this we adapted an intra-dimensional/ extra-dimensional set-shifting paradigm to train rats on a multi-sensory discrimination task. In our setup , stimuli of different modalities ( spatial , olfactory and visual) are combined into complex cues and manipulated independently. In each set , only a single stimulus dimension is relevant for reward. To distinguish between learning and decision-making we suggest a weighted attention model ( WAM). Our model learns by assigning a separate learning rule for the values of features of each dimension ( e.g. , for each color) , reinforced after every experience. Decisions are made by comparing weighted averages of the learnt values , factored by dimension specific weights. Based on the observed behavior of the rats we estimated the parameters of the WAM and demonstrated that it outperforms an alternative model , in which a learnt value is assigned to each combination of features. Estimated decision weights of the WAM reveal an experience-based bias in learning. In the first experimental set the weights associated with all dimensions were similar. The extra-dimensional shift rendered this dimension irrelevant. However , its decision weight remained high for the early learning stage in this last set , providing an explanation for the poor performance of the animals. Thus , estimated weights can be viewed as a possible way to quantify the experience-based bias.