  Statins are widely used to inhibit cholesterol production in the liver among people with hypercholesterolemia. A recent epidemiological study in the UK has shown that statin use ( unlike elevated BMI) is not associated with an increased risk of Achilles tendon rupture. However , because of laboratory reports suggesting a negative influence of statins on tenocyte metabolism , we decided to directly compare the Achilles tendon structure ( cross-sectional area and longitudinal collagen organization) in regular statin users compared to non-users. We conducted ultrasound tissue characterization ( UTC) of the Achilles tendon in statin users and a comparison group of similar age and gender. Statin users and control participants were recruited from May 10 2015 to February 17 2017 through a cardiovascular health centre and from the general community. Cross-sectional area of the Achilles tendon and longitudinal collagen organization ( % type I echoes) were assessed using quantitative ultrasound tissue characterization by a blinded observer at a predetermined location ( 2 cm proximal to the calcaneus). Sixty-six individuals who were either taking statins for at least one year ( ST , n = 33) or a comparison group who had never taken statins ( CG , n = 33) were included in the study. The Achilles tendon cross-sectional area ( ST 59.7 ( 13) mm2 , CG 59.9 ( 8.5) mm2) and proportion of echo-type I patterns ( ST 70 ( 10) % , CG 74 ( 13) %) were equivalent in the two groups. In contrast , there was a negative correlation between BMI ( rs = -0.25 , p = 0.042) and type I echo values. Obese individuals demonstrated a significantly lower percentage of type I echoes ( 62 ( 11) %) than individuals of normal body mass index ( 73 ( 10) % p < 0.05). These findings demonstrate that there is no evidence of a negative statin influence on Achilles tendon structure. Given earlier reports that the risk of Achilles injury is equivalent in statin users and non-users , weightbearing exercise may be prescribed without placing the Achilles tendon at a higher risk of injury than among the general population. The results of this study are consistent with the known negative effects of elevated BMI on tendon structure , suggesting that an assessment of the Achilles tendons prior to prescribing weightbearing exercise may be prudent in obese individuals.