  Rehabilitation robots can provide intensive physical training after stroke. However , variations of the rehabilitation effects in translation from well-controlled research studies to clinical services have not been well evaluated yet. This study aims to compare the rehabilitation effects of the upper limb training by an electromyography ( EMG)- driven robotic hand achieved in a well-controlled research environment and in a practical clinical service. It was a non-randomized controlled trial , and thirty-two participants with chronic stroke were recruited either in the clinical service ( n = 16 , clinic group) , or in the research setting ( n = 16 , lab group). Each participant received 20-session EMG-driven robotic hand assisted upper limb training. The training frequency ( 4 sessions/week) and the pace in a session were fixed for the lab group , while they were flexible ( 1-3 sessions/week) and adaptive for the clinic group. The training effects were evaluated before and after the treatment with clinical scores of the Fugl-Meyer Assessment ( FMA) , Action Research Arm Test ( ARAT) , Functional Independence Measure ( FIM) , and Modified Ashworth Scale ( MAS). Significant improvements in the FMA full score , shoulder/elbow and wrist/hand ( P < 0.001) , ARAT ( P < 0.001) , and MAS elbow ( P < 0.05) were observed after the training for both groups. Significant improvements in the FIM ( P < 0.05) , MAS wrist ( P < 0.001) and MAS hand ( P < 0.05) were only obtained after the training in the clinic group. Compared with the lab group , higher FIM improvement in the clinic group was observed ( P < 0.05). The functional improvements after the robotic hand training in the clinical service were comparable to the effectiveness achieved in the research setting , through flexible training schedules even with a lower training frequency every week. Higher independence in the daily living and a more effective release in muscle<symptom> tones<symptom> were achieved in the clinic group than the lab group.