  In 2009 , the Institute of Medicine ( IOM) published guidance on gestational weight gain ( GWG) modified by maternal pre-pregnancy body mass index ( BMI). Estimates indicate that less than half of US pregnant women have GWG within recommendations. This study examined GWG from before ( 2006-2009) and after ( 2010-2015) the release of the IOM guidance in a rural , non-Hispanic white population to assess the proportion of women with GWG outside of IOM guidance , whether GWG became more likely to be within IOM guidance after 2010 , and identify potential maternal factors associated with GWG outside of recommendations. We examined GWG in 18,217 term singleton births between 2006 and 2015 in which maternal pre-pregnancy BMI could be calculated from electronic medical records at Geisinger , PA , and a subset of 12,912 births in which weekly GWG in the third trimester could be calculated. The primary outcome was whether GWG was below , within , or above recommendations based on maternal BMI. The relationships between GWG , maternal BMI , parity , age at conception , gestation length , and maternal blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> were examined. GWG declined with increasing maternal BMI , however , more than 50 % of overweight and obese women gained above IOM recommendations. About one of five women gained below recommendations ( 21.3 %) with underweight women the most likely to gain below recommendations ( 33.0 %). The proportion of births with usable data increased after 2010 , driven by a higher probability of recording maternal weight. However , the proportion of women who gained below , within or above recommendations did not change over the ten years. GWG above recommendations was associated with higher maternal BMI , lower parity , and longer gestation. GWG below recommendations was associated with lower maternal BMI , higher parity , shorter gestation , and younger age at conception. Maternal blood<symptom> pressure<symptom> was higher for GWG outside recommendations. Despite the publication of IOM recommendations in 2009 and an apparent increase in tracking maternal weight after 2010 , GWG in this population did not change between 2006 and 2015. A majority of overweight and obese women gained above recommendations. GWG below recommendations continues to occur , and is prevalent among underweight women.