  Morbidity associated with iron deficiency anaemia in pregnancy is increased in the presence of sickle cell anaemia. Iron supplementation in pregnant sicklers in a bid to resolve iron deficiency anaemia is recommended only after laboratory confirmation of iron deficiency. However , the greatest burden of sickle cell disease is seen in low and middle income countries where equipment for measuring body iron indices are unavailable.Sickle cell anaemia is an inherited disorder of haemoglobin synthesis characterized by life-long severe haemolytic anaemia. People with sickle cell anaemia are at increased risk of iron overload from haemolysis and recurrent multiple transfusions. Iron overload a complication of sickle cell disease , which is more often in thalassemias , is typically given undue fear in sickle cell anaemia especially in patients with no recent transfusion history. About a third of the haemolysis in sickle cell anaemia is intravascular , and the resulting excess iron is lost in urine. This may lead to a negative iron balance<symptom> and iron deficiency. There is little evidence of iron overload in pregnant sicklers , and iron deficiency may be more common than suspected. Even when iron overload does occur in a condition called siderosis , the deposited iron is irreversible and thus can not be reused by the body in case of susceptibility to iron deficiency. More so , in pregnancy there is an increase in the body 's iron requirement by about 1000-1200 mg which is usually not met by dietary intake. Iron supplements could be given to pregnant sicklers , caution should however be taken in patients with history of recurrent transfusion.Anaemia is a common and feared complication in pregnancy. The co-existence of iron deficiency anaemia and sickle cell anaemia worsens prognosis of pregnancy. Iron overload a possible complication of sickle cell anaemia is related to multiple transfusions. The urinary losses from intravascular haemolysis and increased dietary requirement in pregnancy predispose even pregnant sicklers to iron deficiency anaemia. Iron supplements should thus conveniently be given to pregnant sicklers with no history of recurrent transfusions.