  The permeability of the corneal epithelium to fluorescein Pdc is an indicator of the health of the ocular surface. It can be measured in a clinical setting by determining the accumulation of fluorescein in the stroma following administration of the dye on the ocular surface. Here we demonstrate a new multi-drop method for the measurement of Pdc by a spot fluorometer. Twenty-nine healthy participants were recruited for this study. First , a probe-drop of fluorescein ( 0.35 % , 2 μL) was instilled on the conjunctiva. The clearance of the dye from the tears was immediately measured using the fluorometer. Following this , two loading drops ( 2 %; 6 μL each) were administered 10 min apart. Fifteen minutes later , the ocular surface was washed and fluorescence from the stroma Fs was measured. Permeability was calculated using Pdc = ( Q x Fs)/ ( 2 x AUC) , where Q is the stromal thickness and AUC is the area under the fluorescence vs. time curve for the loading drops. After the probe drop , the tear fluorescence followed an exponential decay ( elimination rate constant; kd = 0.41 ± 0.28 per min; 49 eyes of 29 subjects) , but the increase in Fs was negligible. However , after the loading drops , the measured Fs was ~ 20-fold higher than the autofluorescence and could be recorded at a high signal to noise ratio ( SNR > 40). The intra-subject variability of kd was insignificant. Since fluorescein undergoes concentration quenching at > 0.5 % , the value of AUC for the loading drops was estimated by scaling the AUC of the probe drop. The calculated Pdc was 0.54 ± 0.54 nm/sec ( n = 49). A Monte Carlo simulation of the model for the multi-drop protocol confirmed the robustness of the estimated Pdc. The new multi-drop method can be used in place of the single-drop approach. It can overcome a lack of sensitivity in fluorometers of high axial resolution. The Pdc estimated by the multi-drop method is ~ 11-fold higher than previously reported but closer to the value reported for other drugs with equivalent octanol/water partition coefficient.