  We aimed to differentiate the neural responses to cooperative and competitive contexts , which are the two of the most important social contexts in human society. Healthy male college students were asked to complete a Tetris-like task requiring mental rotation skills under individual , cooperative , and competitive contexts in an fMRI scanner. While the participants completed the task , pictures of others experiencing pain evoking emotional empathy randomly appeared to capture contextual effects on empathic neural responses. Behavioral results indicated that , in the presence of cooperation , participants solved the tasks more accurately and quickly than what they did when in the presence of competition. The fMRI results revealed activations in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ( dlPFC) and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex ( dmPFC) related to executive functions and theory of mind when participants performed the task under both cooperative and competitive contexts , whereas no activation of such areas was observed in the individual context. Cooperation condition exhibited stronger neural responses in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex ( vmPFC) and dmPFC than competition condition. Competition condition , however , showed marginal neural responses in the cerebellum and anterior insular cortex ( AIC). The two social contexts involved stronger empathic neural responses to other 's pain than the individual context , but no substantial differences between cooperation and competition were present. Regions of interest analyses revealed that individual 's trait empathy modulated the neural activity in the state empathy network , the AIC , and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC) depending on the social context. These results suggest that cooperation improves task performance and activates neural responses associated with reward and mentalizing. Furthermore , the interaction between trait- and state-empathy was explored by correlation analyses between individual 's trait empathy score and changing empathic brain activations along with the exposure to the cooperative and competitive social contexts.