  Preeclampsia is among the most common medical complications of pregnancy. The clinical utility of invasive hemodynamic monitoring in preeclampsia ( e.g. , Swan-Ganz catheter) is controversial. Thoracic impedance cardiography ( TIC) and Doppler echocardiography are noninvasive techniques but they both have important limitations. NICaS ™ ( NI Medical , PetachTikva , Israel) is a noninvasive cardiac system for determining cardiac output ( CO) that utilizes regional impedance cardiography ( RIC) by noninvasively measuring the impedance signal in the periphery. It outperformed any other impedance cardiographic technology and was twice as accurate as TIC. We used the NICaS ™ system to compare the hemodynamic parameters of women with severe preeclampsia ( PET group , n = 17) to a cohort of healthy normotensive pregnant women with a singleton pregnancy at term ( control group , n = 62) ( 1/2015- 6/2015). Heart rate ( HR) , stroke volume ( SV) , CO , total peripheral resistance ( TPR) and mean arterial pressure ( MAP) were measured 15-30 min before CS initiation , immediately after administering spinal anesthesia , immediately after delivery of the fetus and placenta , at the abdominal fascia closure and within 24-36 and 48-72 h postpartum. The COs before and during the CS were significantly higher in the control group compared to the PET group ( P < .05) , but reached equivalent values within 24-36 h postpartum. CO peaked at delivery of the newborn and the placenta and started to decline afterwards in both groups. The MAP and TPR values were significantly higher in the PET group at all points of assessment except at 48-72 h postpartum when it was still significantly higher for MAP while the TPR only exhibited a higher trend but not statistically significant. The NICaS ™ device noninvasively demonstrated low CO and high TPR profiles in the PET group compared to controls. The immediate postpartum period is accompanied by the most dramatic hemodynamic changes and fluid shifts , during which the parturient should be closely monitored. The NICaS ™ device may help the clinician to customize the most optimal management for individual parturients. Our findings require validation by further studies on larger samples.