  Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disorder that has been associated with alterations in the status of trace elements , including zinc , copper , iron and manganese. However , clinical studies reporting statuses of these trace elements in type 2 diabetes patients compared to controls have shown conflicting results. This meta-analysis aimed to summarize the existing literature on the statuses of zinc , copper , iron , and manganese in Type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. A literature search of Embase , PubMed , EBSCOHost , ScienceDirect , Scopus , Cochrane library and Web of Science electronic databases was conducted to find studies published from 1970 to November 2016 that compared the trace elements of interest between type 2 diabetic patients and healthy controls. Keywords used were type 2 diabetes , diabetes , hyperglycemia , insulin , glucose , HbA1c , trace elements , micronutrients , zinc , manganese , copper , ceruloplasmin , iron and ferritin. The bias corrected Hedges ' g , was utilized as the effect sizes. Due to the biological interaction between trace elements , it is important to collectively evaluate the statuses of these minerals in type 2 diabetes. Thus , the robust variance estimation method was chosen to handle dependency between multiple outcomes. A total of 52 studies met the inclusion criteria , amounting to 98 effect sizes. Diabetic patients ( n = 20183) had significantly lower zinc status when compared to controls ( effect size = -1.73 , p < 0.01); whereas copper ( effect size = 1.10 , p < 0.05) and ferritin levels ( effect size = 1.05 , p < 0.01) were significantly higher. Although not significant , ceruloplasmin ( effect size = 1.85 , p = 0.06) and iron ( effect size = 1.42 , p = 0.06) levels were higher , and manganese ( effect size = 0.27 , p = 0.34) was lower in patients. Results from this meta-analysis indicate lower zinc status accompanied by increased copper and ferritin levels in patients with type 2 diabetes when compared to controls.