  Randomized trials in adults have shown reduced all-cause and cardiovascular mortality on hemodiafiltration ( HDF) compared to high-flux hemodialysis ( HD) , but the mechanisms leading to improved outcomes are not clear. We studied biomarkers of inflammation<symptom> , oxidative stress , anti-oxidant capacity and endothelial dysfunction in 22 children ( 13 female , age 8-15 years). All children received HD for at least 3 months , and were then switched to HDF , keeping all dialysis related parameters and dialysis time constant. All the biomarkers of inflammation<symptom> ( ß2-microglobulin , IL-6 , IL-10 , high sensitive C-reactive protein ( hsCRP)) , oxidative stress ( nitrotyrosine , advanced glycation end-products ( AGEs) , oxidized low density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL) and anti-oxidant capacity) and endothelial dysfunction ( asymmetric dimethyl arginine ( ADMA) , symmetric dimethyl arginine ( SDMA)) , were comparable between incident and prevalent patients on HD , suggesting that even a short dialysis vintage of 3 months on HD increases inflammation<symptom> and endothelial stress. After 3 months of HDF therapy there was a significant reduction in ß2-microglobulin ( p < 0.001) , hCRP , ADMA , SDMA , AGEs , ox-LDL ( p < 0.01 for all) and an increase in total antioxidant capacity ( p < 0.001) compared to HD. All children were maintained on the same dialyser , dialysis water quality , dialysis time and blood flow speeds suggesting that improved clearances on HDF led to an improved biomarker profile. Even in children with residual renal function there was a significant reduction in ß2 microglobulin , hsCRP , SDMA , ox-LDL and AGEs on HDF compared to HD. Children with a lower blood flow had higher inflammatory status ( higher IL-6/ IL-10 ratio; p = 0.04 , r = -0.43). Children who achieved a higher convective volume ( ≥ median 12.8 L/m2) had lower ox-LDL ( p = 0.02). In conclusion , we have shown that a significant improvement in inflammation<symptom> , antioxidant capacity and endothelial risk profile is achieved even within a short time ( 3 months) on HDF compared to HD treatment. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02063776.