  To achieve the 90-90-90 goals set by UNAIDS , the number of new HIV<pathogen> infections needs to decrease to approximately 500,000 by 2020. One of the ` five pillars ' to achieve this goal is pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP). Truvada ( emtricitabine-tenofovir) is currently the only medication approved for PrEP. Despite its advantages , Truvada is costly and requires individuals to adhere to the once-daily regimen. To improve PrEP , many next-generation regimen , including long-acting formulations , are currently investigated. However , pre-clinical testing may not guide candidate selection , since it often fails to translate into clinical efficacy. On the other hand , quantifying prophylactic efficacy in the clinic is ethically problematic and requires to conduct long ( years) and large ( N > 1000 individuals) trials , precluding systematic evaluation of candidates and deployment strategies. To prioritize- and help design PrEP regimen , tools are urgently needed that integrate pharmacological- , viral- and host factors determining prophylactic efficacy. Integrating the aforementioned factors , we developed an efficient and exact stochastic simulation approach to predict prophylactic efficacy , as an example for dolutegravir ( DTG). Combining the population pharmacokinetics of DTG with the stochastic framework , we predicted that plasma concentrations of 145.18 and 722.23 nM prevent 50- and 90 % sexual transmissions respectively. We then predicted the reduction in HIV<pathogen> infection when DTG was used in PrEP , PrEP ` on demand ' and post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP) before/after virus exposure. Once daily PrEP with 50 mg oral DTG prevented 99-100 % infections , and 85 % of infections when 50 % of dosing events were missed. PrEP ` on demand ' prevented 79-84 % infections and PEP > 80 % when initiated within 6 hours after virus exposure and continued for as long as possible. While the simulation framework can easily be adapted to other PrEP candidates , our simulations indicated that oral 50 mg DTG is non-inferior to Truvada. Moreover , the predicted 90 % preventive concentrations can guide release kinetics of currently developed DTG nano-formulations.