  Shidu is the Chinese transliteration for ` losing an only child , ' which indicates the death of the only child in the family. Shidu is a unique social phenomenon resulting from the One-Child Policy implemented in China for several decades. Shiduers are parents who have lost their only child. The grief research scholar Neimeyer ( 2012) argued that grief research should consider the role of different cultures in the grieving process. Familism culture is a collectivist culture that has a profound effect on Chinese society and is likely to produce a significant effect on the grieving process of shiduers; however , this effect has not yet received systematic attention in research. To explore the effect of familism culture on the grief of shiduers , we conducted semi-structured personal interviews in Beijing , China , with seven shiduers. The study results show that the effect of familism culture on the grief of shiduers includes three levels: cognition , emotion , and behavior. These levels are reflected in a variety of relationships , including relationships with ancestors , the deceased child , the spouse , relatives , Tong Ming Ren ( the Chinese transliteration of ` people who share the same fate ') , and the country. The first four types of relationships are reflections of ` direct familism culture , ' and the latter two types of relationships are reflections of ` extended familism culture '. The relationships with the deceased child , relatives , and Tong Ming Ren are mainly supportive; the relationship with ancestors is mainly stressful; the relationship with the spouse has a dual nature; and the relationship with the country is contradictory. Over time , shiduers have abandoned the concept of familism culture and have moved toward reducing stress and increasing supportiveness. Psychological professionals , social workers , and government staff may refer to the results of this study to help shiduers obtain support and reduce stress from the described relationships. Specific suggestions are provided in the text.