  Giant Osteosclerotic Lesions<symptom> ( GOLs) are a group of rarely reported intraosseous lesions<symptom>. Their precise diagnosis is important since they can be confused with malignant neoplasms. This retrospective study aimed to record and analyze the clinical and radiographic Giant Osteosclerotic Lesions<symptom> ( GOLs) detected in the maxillomandibular area of patients attending to our institution. Materials and Methods: Informed consent from the patients was obtained and those cases of 2.5 cm or larger lesions<symptom> with radiopaque or mixed ( radiolucid-radiopaque) appearance located in the maxillofacial bones were selected. Assessed parameters were: age , gender , radiographic aspect , shape , borders , size , location and relations to roots. Lesions<symptom> were classified as radicular , apical , interradicular , interradicular-apical , radicular-apical or located in a previous teeth extraction area. Additionally , several osseous and dental developmental alterations ( DDAs) were assessed. Seventeen radiopacities in 14 patients were found and were located almost exclusively in mandible and were two types: idiopathic osteosclerosis and condensing osteitis. GOLs were more frequent in females , and in the anterior and premolar zones. 94.2 % of GOLs were qualified as idiopathic osteosclerosis and one case was condensing osteitis. All studied cases showed different osseous and dental developmental alterations ( DDAs). The most common were: Microdontia , hypodontia , pulp stones , macrodontia and variations in the mental foramina. GOLs must be differentiated from other radiopaque benign and malignant tumors. Condensing osteitis , was considered an anomalous osseous response induced by a chronic low-grade inflammatory stimulus. For development of idiopathic osteosclerosis , two possible mechanisms could be related. The first is modification of the normal turnover with excessive osseous deposition. The second mechanism will prevent the normal bone resorption , arresting the osseous breakdown process.