  Dogs are commonly affected with cruciate ligament rupture ( CR) and associated osteoarthritis ( OA) , and frequently develop a second contralateral CR. Platelet rich plasma ( PRP) is a component of whole blood that contains numerous growth factors , which in combination with a collagen scaffold may act to promote bioenhanced primary repair of ligament. This study tested the hypothesis that treatment of partial stable CR stifles with an intra-articular collagen scaffold and PRP would decrease the disease progression , synovitis<symptom> and risk of complete CR over a 12-month study period. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 29 client-owned dogs with an unstable stifle due to complete CR and stable contralateral stifle with partial CR. All dogs were treated with tibial plateau leveling osteotomy ( TPLO) on the unstable stifle and a single intra-articular application of PRP-collagen in the stable partial CR stifle. Dogs were evaluated at the time of diagnosis , and at 10-weeks and 12-months after treatment. We evaluated correlation between both development of complete CR and time to complete CR with diagnostic tests including bilateral stifle radiographs , 3.0 Tesla magnetic resonance ( MR) imaging , and bilateral stifle arthroscopy. Additionally , histologic evaluation of synovial biopsies , C-reactive protein ( CRP) concentrations in serum and synovial fluid , and synovial total nucleated cell count , were determined. Results indicated that a single application of PRP-collagen in partial CR stifles of client owned dogs is not an effective disease-modifying therapy for the prevention of progression to complete CR. Radiographic effusion<symptom> , arthroscopic evaluation of cranial cruciate ligament ( CrCL) damage , and MR assessment of ligament fiber tearing in partial CR stifles correlated with progression to complete CR over the 12-month follow-up period. We determined that the best predictive model for development of complete CR in PRP-collagen treated partial CR stifles included variables from multiple diagnostic modalities.