  Health system delays in diagnosis of cancer contribute to the glaring disparities in cancer mortality between high-income countries and low- and middle-income countries. In Botswana , approximately 70 % of cancers are diagnosed at late stage and median time from first health facility visit for cancer-related symptoms to specialty cancer care was 160 days ( IQR 59-653). We describe the implementation and early outcomes of training targeting primary care providers , which is a part of a multi-component implementation study in Kweneng-East district aiming to enhance timely diagnosis of cancers. Health-care providers from all public facilities within the district were invited to participate in an 8-h intensive short-course program developed by a multidisciplinary team and adapted to the Botswana health system context. Participants ' performance was assessed using a 25-multiple choice question tool , with pre- and post-assessments paired by anonymous identifier. Statistical analysis with Wilcoxon signed-rank test to compare performance at the two time points across eight sub-domains ( pathophysiology , epidemiology , social context , symptoms , evaluation , treatment , documentation , follow-up). Linear regression and negative binomial modeling were used to determine change in performance. Participants ' satisfaction with the program was measured on a separate survey using a 5-point Likert scale. 176 participants attended the training over 5 days in April 2016. Pooled linear regression controlling for test version showed an overall performance increase of 16.8 % after participation ( 95 % CI 15.2-18.4). Statistically significant improvement was observed for seven out of eight subdomains on test A and all eight subdomains on test B. Overall , 71 ( 40.3 %) trainees achieved a score greater than 70 % on the pretest , and 161 ( 91.5 %) did so on the posttest. Participants reported a high degree of satisfaction with the training program 's content and its relevance to their daily work. We describe a successfully implemented primary health care provider-focused training component of an innovative intervention aiming to reduce health systems delays in cancer diagnosis in sub-Saharan Africa. The training achieved district-wide participation , and improvement in the knowledge of primary health-care providers in this setting. www.ClinicalTrials.gov , identifier NCT02752061.