  The popular modern diet , characterized by an excess of animal protein and salt but insufficient in fruits , vegetables and water , is a poor fit for human physiological and homeostatic regulatory systems. Sustained net acid and sodium retention , coupled with an insufficient intake of cardiovascular protective potassium-rich foods and hydration in the modern diet can give rise to debilitating chronic organ dysfunction and ultimately , mortality. This holds true , especially in our aging population who are already facing inevitable decline in organ functional reserve. Importantly , in most cases , despite the mismatch and adverse effects to multiple organ systems , plasma electrolyte and acid-base parameters can , on the surface , be maintained within a & ldquo; normal & rdquo; reference range , primarily by activating ( often maximally activating) compensatory homeostatic mechanisms. These diet-induced effects can thus be clinically silent for decades. Embodied in the chronic corrective homeostatic processes , however , are real risks for multiorgan damage. According to the Dietary Guideline Advisory Committee ( DGAC) , half of American adults have one or more chronic<disease> diseases<disease> that are preventable with dietary modification. Here , homeostasis of body fluid acid-base , sodium , potassium and water is examined. Our current dietary habits and their required regulatory adaptation , maladaptation and relevant physiology and pathophysiology are discussed. A framework of dietary modifications to avoid a propensity for maladaptation and thus lowers the risks of common modern diseases ( primary prevention) and minimizes the risk of chronic and age-related disease progression ( secondary prevention) is emphasized. Although there are other variables at play , a key to restoring the all-important dietary potassium to sodium ratio is greater consumption of vegetables/fruits and adopting salt temperance. Dietary and nutritional optimization is an under-emphasized area of health care that has an enormous potential to temper the epidemics of prevalent chronic<disease> diseases<disease> in modern society and improve population health.