  Treatment decision-making in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma ( RRMM) is challenging for a number of reasons including , the heterogeneity of disease at relapse and the number of possible therapeutic approaches. This study broadly aims to generate new evidence-based data to facilitate clinical decision-making in RRMM patients. The primary objective is to investigate the prognostic value of patient self-reported fatigue<symptom> severity for overall survival. This multicenter prospective observational study will consecutively enroll 312 patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior line of therapy and are considered as RRMM according to the International Myeloma Working Group ( IMWG) criteria. Eligible RRMM participants will be adults ( ≥ 18 years old) patients and will be enrolled irrespective of comorbidities and performance status. At the time of study inclusion , data to calculate the frailty score are to be available. Patients will be followed up for 30 months and patient-reported outcome ( PRO) assessment is planned at baseline and thereafter at 3 , 6 , 12 , and 24 months. The following PRO validated questionnaires will be used: the European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 ( EORTC QLQ-C30) , the EORTC QLQ-MY20 and the EORTC QLQ-INFO25. Satisfaction with care and preference for involvement in treatment decisions will also be evaluated. Clinical , laboratory and treatment related information will be prospectively collected in conjunction with pre scheduled PRO assessments. Cox regression analyses will be used to assess the prognostic value of baseline fatigue<symptom> severity ( EORTC QLQ-C30) and other patient-reported health-related quality of life parameters. Clinical decision-making in RRMM is a challenge and outcome prediction is also an important aspect to enhance personalized treatment planning. Given the paucity of PRO data in this population , this prospective observational study aims to provide novel information that may facilitate patients ' management in routine practice. This trial is registered as identifier NCT03190525.