  In this overview , we summarize the findings of the literature with regards to physiology and pathophysiology of ultra-marathon running. The number of ultra-marathon races and the number of official finishers considerably increased in the last decades especially due to the increased number of female and age-group runners. A typical ultra-marathoner is male , married , well-educated , and ~ 45 years old. Female ultra-marathoners account for ~ 20 % of the total number of finishers. Ultra-marathoners are older and have a larger weekly training volume , but run more slowly during training compared to marathoners. Previous experience ( e.g. , number of finishes in ultra-marathon races and personal best marathon time) is the most important predictor variable for a successful ultra-marathon performance followed by specific anthropometric ( e.g. , low body mass index , BMI , and low body fat) and training ( e.g. , high volume and running speed during training) characteristics. Women are slower than men , but the sex difference in performance decreased in recent years to ~ 10-20 % depending upon the length of the ultra-marathon. The fastest ultra-marathon race times are generally achieved at the age of 35-45 years or older for both women and men , and the age of peak performance increases with increasing race distance or duration. An ultra-marathon leads to an energy deficit resulting in a reduction of both body fat and skeletal muscle mass. An ultra-marathon in combination with other risk factors , such as extreme weather conditions ( either heat or cold) or the country where the race is held , can lead to exercise-associated hyponatremia. An ultra-marathon can also lead to changes in biomarkers indicating a pathological process in specific organs or organ systems such as skeletal muscles , heart , liver , kidney , immune and endocrine system. These changes are usually temporary , depending on intensity and duration of the performance , and usually normalize after the race. In longer ultra-marathons , ~ 50-60 % of the participants experience musculoskeletal problems. The most common injuries in ultra-marathoners involve the lower limb , such as the ankle and the knee. An ultra-marathon can lead to an increase in creatine-kinase to values of 100,000-200,000 U/l depending upon the fitness level of the athlete and the length of the race. Furthermore , an ultra-marathon can lead to changes in the heart as shown by changes in cardiac biomarkers , electro- and echocardiography. Ultra-marathoners often suffer from digestive problems and gastrointestinal bleeding after an ultra-marathon is not uncommon. Liver enzymes can also considerably increase during an ultra-marathon. An ultra-marathon often leads to a temporary reduction in renal function. Ultra-marathoners often suffer from upper respiratory<disease> infections<disease> after an ultra-marathon. Considering the increased number of participants in ultra-marathons , the findings of the present review would have practical applications for a large number of sports scientists and sports medicine practitioners working in this field.