  We studied in a clinical setting the age dependent T1 relaxation time as a marker of normal late brain maturation and compared it to conventional techniques , namely the apparent diffusion coefficient ( ADC). Forty-two healthy subjects ranging from ages 1 year to 20 years were included in our study. T1 brain maps in which the intensity of each pixel corresponded to T1 relaxation times were generated based on MR imaging data acquired using a MP2RAGE sequence. During the same session , diffusion tensor imaging data was collected. T1 relaxation times and ADC in white matter and grey matter were measured in seven clinically relevant regions of interest and were correlated to subjects ' age. In the basal ganglia , there was a small , yet significant , decrease in T1 relaxation time ( -0.45 ≤ R ≤ -0.59 , p < 10-2) and ADC ( -0.60 ≤ R ≤ -0.65 , p < 10-4) as a function of age. In the frontal and parietal white matter , there was a significant decrease in T1 relaxation time ( -0.62 ≤ R ≤ -0.68 , p < 10-4) and ADC ( -0.81 ≤ R ≤ -0.85 , p < 10-4) as a function of age. T1 relaxation time changes in the corpus callosum and internal capsule were less relevant for this age range. There was no significant difference between the correlation of T1 relaxation time and ADC with respect to age ( p-value = 0.39). The correlation between T1 relaxation and ADC is strong in the white matter but only moderate in basal ganglia over this age period. T1 relaxation time is a marker of brain maturation or myelination during late brain development. Between the age of 1 and 20 years , T1 relaxation time decreases as a function of age in the white matter and basal ganglia. The greatest changes occur in frontal and parietal white matter. These regions are known to mature in the final stage of development and are mainly composed of association circuits. Age-correlation is not significantly different between T1 relaxation time and ADC. Therefore , T1 relaxation time does not appear to be a superior marker of brain maturation than ADC but may be considered as complementary owing the intrinsic differences in bio-physical sensitivity. This work may serve as normative ranges in clinical imaging routines.