  Laparoscopic surgery is progressing rapidly is becoming the normal route for many abdominal operations , even for major complex surgery. The integrated laparoscopic theatre is a state-of-the-art system in which the laparoscopic equipment and multiple flat-screen monitors are permanently installed to be operational on demand inside the theatre. These expensive systems are being widely adopted , however very little research has been published regarding which features of these systems are desired by the surgeons who use them. The study objective was to assess the strength of preference for key attributes of integrated laparoscopic theatres and to compare these preferences between Gynaecologists and General surgeons. This was an electronically distributed discrete choice experiment survey of British practicing Laparoscopic Gynaecologists and General Surgeons ( Through The British Society of Gynaecology Endoscopy and The Association of Laparoscopic Surgeons of Great Britain and Ireland). An electronic survey was designed and pre-tested. This was then sent to practicing British Laparoscopic Gynaecologists and General-Surgeons. There were structured questions regarding the seven key attributes of integrated laparoscopic theatres in the standard form for a discrete choice experiment. Questionnaires from 167 respondents were analysed. One hundred three were gynaecologists and 64 were general-surgeons. Adjustable screens for height and position was the most favoured attribute and it is 4.7 times more desirable than the next most desirable attribute , which was a wire free floor. The least desirable features were piped CO2 , ceiling-mounted-screens and external-transmission-of-images. Both groups favour adjustable screens for position and height above all the other features. These findings are in contrast with previous research , which showed that when asked to rank the attributes in order , gynaecologists chose ceiling mounted screens first and adjustable screens fourth. When asked to `` trade off '' attributes in the discrete choice experiment the adjustability of the screens became much more important than how the screens were mounted. With new wireless technology the benefits of a fully integrated theatre could be delivered with floor mounted systems at a considerably reduced cost. This information is important to manufacturers and purchasers of these systems in order to design cost effective ergonomic theatres that are fit for purpose.