  Chromatin insulators or boundary elements protect genes from regulatory activities from neighboring genes or chromatin domains. In the Drosophila Abdominal-B ( Abd-B) locus , the deletion of such elements , such as Frontabdominal-7 ( Fab-7) or Fab-8 led to dominant gain of function phenotypes , presumably due to the loss of chromatin barriers. Homologous chromosomes are paired in Drosophila , creating a number of pairing dependent phenomena including transvection , and whether transvection may affect the function of Polycomb response elements ( PREs) and thus contribute to the phenotypes are not known. Here , we studied the chromatin barrier activity of Fab-8 and how it is affected by the zygosity of the transgene , and found that Fab-8 is able to block the silencing effect of the Ubx PRE on the DsRed reporter gene in a CTCF binding sites dependent manner. However , the blocking also depends on the zygosity of the transgene in that the barrier activity is present when the transgene is homozygous , but absent when the transgene is heterozygous. To analyze this effect , we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation and quantitative PCR ( ChIP-qPCR) experiments on homozygous transgenic embryos , and found that H3K27me3 and H3K9me3 marks are restricted by Fab-8 , but they spread beyond Fab-8 into the DsRed gene when the two CTCF binding sites within Fab-8 were mutated. Consistent with this , the mutation reduced H3K4me3 and RNA Pol II binding to the DsRed gene , and consequently , DsRed expression. Importantly , in heterozygous embryos , Fab-8 is unable to prevent the spread of H3K27me3 and H3K9me3 marks from crossing Fab-8 into DsRed , suggesting an insulator bypass. These results suggest that in the Abd-B locus , deletion of the insulator in one copy of the chromosome could lead to the loss of insulator activity on the homologous chromosome , and in other loci where chromosomal deletion created hemizygous regions of the genome , the chromatin barrier could be compromised. This study highlights a role of homologous chromosome pairing in the regulation of gene expression in the Drosophila genome.