  Gastric cancer ( GC) is the fifth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-associated mortality worldwide. In the current study , comprehensive bioinformatic analyses were performed to develop a novel scoring system for GC risk assessment based on CAP-Gly domain containing linker protein family member 4 ( CLIP4) DNA methylation status. Two GC datasets with methylation sequencing information and mRNA expression profiling were downloaded from the The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs) between the CLIP4 hypermethylation and CLIP4 hypomethylation groups were screened using the limma package in R 3.3.1 , and survival analysis of these DEGs was performed using the survival package. A risk scoring system was established via regression factor-weighted gene expression based on linear combination to screen the most important genes associated with CLIP4 methylation and prognosis. Genes associated with high/low-risk value were selected using the limma package. Functional enrichment analysis of the top 500 DEGs that positively and negatively associated with risk values was performed using DAVID 6.8 online and the gene set enrichment analysis ( GSEA) software. In total , 35 genes were identified to be that significantly associated with prognosis and CLIP4 DNA methylation , and three prognostic signature genes , claudin-11 ( CLDN11) , apolipoprotein D ( APOD) , and chordin like 1 ( CHRDL1) , were used to establish a risk assessment system. The prognostic scoring system exhibited efficiency in classifying patients with different prognoses , where the low-risk groups had significantly longer overall survival times than those in the high-risk groups. CLDN11 , APOD and CHRDL1 exhibited reduced expression in the hypermethylation and low-risk groups compare with the hypomethylation and high-risk groups , respectively. Multivariate Cox analysis indicated that risk value could be used as an independent prognostic factor. In functional analysis , six functional gene ontology terms and five GSEA pathways were associated with CLDN11 , APOD and CHRDL1. The results established the credibility of the scoring system in this study. Additionally , these three genes , which were significantly associated with CLIP4 DNA methylation and GC risk assessment , were identified as potential prognostic biomarkers.