 Fibroblast<GPE> growth factor-23 ( FGF-23 ) is a bone-derived hormone that activates FGFR/α-Klotho binary complexes in the kidney renal tubules to regulate phosphate reabsorption and vitamin D metabolism. The objective of this review is to discuss the emerging data that show that FGF-23 has functions beyond regulation of mineral metabolism, including roles in innate immune and hemodynamic responses. Excess FGF-23<PERSON> is associated with inflammation and adverse infectious outcomes, as well as increased morbidity and mortality, particularly in patients with chronic kidney disease. Enhancer elements in the FGF-23 promoter have been identified that mediate the effects of inflammatory cytokines to stimulate FGF-23 gene transcription in bone. In addition, inflammation induces ectopic expression of FGF-23 and α-Klotho in macrophages that do not normally express FGF-23 or its binary receptor complexes. These observations suggest that FGF-23 may play an important role in regulating innate immunity through multiple potential mechanisms. Circulating FGF-23 acts as a counter-regulatory hormone to suppress 1,25D production in the proximal tubule of the kidney. Since vitamin D deficiency may predispose infectious and cardiovascular diseases, FGF-23 effects on innate immune responses may be due to suppression of 1,25D production. Alternatively, systemic and locally produced FGF-23 may modulate immune functions through direct interactions with myeloid cells, including macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes to impair immune cell functions. Short-acting small molecules that reversibly inhibit FGF-23 offer the potential to block pro-inflammatory and cardiotoxic effects of FGF-23 with less side effects compared with FGF-23 blocking antibodies that have the potential to cause hyperphosphatemia and soft tissue calcifications in animal models. In conclusion, there are several mechanisms by which FGF-23 impacts the innate immune system and further investigation is critical for the development of therapies to treat diseases associated with elevated FGF-23.