 Abdominoplasty<PERSON> is one of the most popular body-contouring procedures. Despite its popularity, classic abdominoplasty is still associated with a significant rate of complaints from patients such as: fullness of flanks and epigastric areas, lack of a posterior lumbar curve, hanging skin over the incision line, and visible scars over the flanks and beyond underwear or swimming suit coverage. This study reviews the authors ' experience in redo abdominoplasty when the patient is not or partially satisfied with the primary procedure. A total of 115 female and 32 male patients underwent revision abdominoplasty with truncal liposculpting between 2007 and 2016. The age distribution of patients ranged from 33 to 73 years, with a mean of 43.1 years. All the patients included in the study had undergone classic abdominoplasty in a different institution. Overall satisfaction with the body appearance after the combined procedure was rated on a scale of 1-5, where 1 is 'poor, ' 2 is 'fair, ' 3 is 'good, ' 4 is 'very good, ' and 5 is 'excellent. ' The evaluation was made 12 months after the composite body-contouring procedure. Four hundred to 1500 ml of fat were obtained with liposuction ( mean 840 ml ). The amount of clean, adipose tissue transplanted to the buttocks varied from 95 to 425 ( mean 286 ml ) and to the lower limbs from 75 to 270 ml ( mean 195 ml ). The stromal-enriched lipograft technique was used in all the cases to enrich the fat transplantation. There was no hematoma, infection or deep vein thrombosis. Seventy-five percent reported that their appearance after composite body contouring was 'very good ' to 'excellent ' ( 30 % 'excellent ' and 45 % 'very good ' ) and 20 % responded that their appearance was 'good. ' Only 5 % of patients thought their appearance was less than good ( 'fair ' ). The average follow-up time for this group of patients has been 6.3 years ( range 1-10 years ). Truncal liposculpting with modified abdominoplasty accomplishes very good aesthetic results in a single surgical procedure with a low rate of complications and high patient satisfaction in cases of revision abdominoplasties. This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine<ORGANIZATION> ratings, please refer to Table of Contents<ORGANIZATION> or the online Instructions to Authors<GPE> www.springer.com/00266.