 Endophytic strains were isolated from different parts of a healthy `` Dongzao '' jujube ( Ziziphus<ORGANIZATION> jujuba Mill<PERSON>. 'Dongzao ' ) to find biocontrol agents against jujube shrunken-fruit disease caused by Alternaria<GPE> alternata. The strains were screened using A. alternata strain CN193 as the target pathogen. The nutrient competition for all isolates was studied using the dual culture, and their inhibitive capability was tested by measuring the inhibition width of filter paper disks with filtrate. Influence of filtrate from the selected strains with strong inhibition of mycelial growth on spore germination was studied with hanging drop method on concavity slides. Colonization in the jujube leaves was assayed using a rifampicin-resistant mutant of strain St-zn-34 as the screening marker. Strains were identified based on their morphological, physiological, and biochemical characteristics, 16S rDNA sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis. A total of 81 endophytic strains were isolated from the stems, leaves, flowers, and fruits of winter jujube. Among these isolates, 14 strains showed strong antagonism against A. alternata. Further<PERSON> study showed that the filtrate of strains St-zn-9 and St-zn-34 could inhibit the mycelial growth of A. alternata, and the widths of their inhibition zone reached 6.14±0.03 mm and 8.27±0.09 mm, respectively. However, strain St-zn-34 showed stronger inhibition on spore germination than strain St-zn-9. St-zn-34 could significantly reduce the spore germination rate of A. alternata, and the spore did not germinate at all or the germ tube was very short. A rifampicin resistant-derivative of wild-type strain St-zn-34, which was designated as St-zn-34r, was obtained by transferring the strains to media with stepwise-increased rifampicin. Colonization assays indicated that St-zn-34r could colonize in jujube leaves, and the population of St-zn-34r was 1.2×103 CFU/g FW after inoculation for 30 days. Except for its salt tolerance, St-zn-34 was the closest to those of Bacillus<GPE> subtilis. Thus, the strain was identified as B. subtilis.