 Precision medicine, the customization of health care to an individual 's genetic profile while accounting for biomarkers and lifestyle, has increasingly been adopted by health care stakeholders to guide the development of treatment options, improve treatment decision making, provide more patient-centered care, and better inform coverage and reimbursement decisions. Despite these benefits, key challenges prevent its broader use and adoption. On December 7-8, 2017, the Academy<ORGANIZATION> of Managed Care Pharmacy<PERSON> convened a group of stakeholders to discuss these challenges and provide recommendations to facilitate broader adoption and use of precision medicine across health care settings. These stakeholders represented the pharmaceutical industry, clinicians, patient advocacy, private payers, device manufacturers, health analytics, information technology, academia, and government agencies. Throughout the 2-day forum, participants discussed evidence requirements for precision medicine, including consistent ways to measure the utility and validity of precision medicine tests and therapies, limitations of traditional clinical trial designs, and limitations of value assessment framework methods. They also highlighted the challenges with evidence collection and data silos in precision medicine. Interoperability within and across health systems is hindering clinical advancements. Current medical coding systems also can not account for the heterogeneity of many diseases, preventing health systems from having a complete understanding of their patient population to inform resource allocation. Challenges faced by payers, such as evidence limitations, to inform coverage and reimbursement decisions in precision medicine, as well as legal and regulatory barriers that inhibit more widespread data sharing, were also identified. While a broad range of perspectives was shared throughout the forum, participants reached consensus across 2 overarching areas. First, there is a greater need for common definitions, thresholds, and standards to guide evidence generation in precision medicine. Second, current information silos are preventing the sharing of valuable data. Collaboration among stakeholders is needed to support better information sharing, awareness, and education of precision medicine for patients. The recommendations brought forward by this diverse group of experts provide a set of solutions to spur widespread use and application of precision medicine. Taken together, successful adoption and use of precision medicine will require input and collaboration from all sectors of health care, especially patients. DISCLOSURES This AMCP Partnership Forum<ORGANIZATION> and the development of the proceedings document were supported by Amgen<PERSON>, Foundation Medicine<ORGANIZATION>, Genentech<GPE>, Gilead<GPE>, MedImpact<ORGANIZATION>, National Pharmaceutical Council<ORGANIZATION>, Precision for Value<PERSON>, Sanofi<PERSON>, Takeda<GPE>, and Xcenda<GSP>.