 The authors studied the alterations in mean platelet volume, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and red blood cell distribution width values together with the platelet count in hospitalized patients diagnosed with Fournier<PERSON> gangrene to determine their association with disease prognosis. Records of patients diagnosed with Fournier<PERSON> gangrene were analyzed retrospectively. Seventy-four patients ( 49 men and 25 women ) with a mean age of 57.60 ± 15.34 years ( range, 20 to 95 years ) were included. Sixty-eight participants were discharged and six died during follow-up. In the discharged group, during hospitalization, there was a trend downward in neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and mean platelet volume values, whereas platelet count increased significantly. In the nonsurvivor group, the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and mean platelet volume after first débridement and at the end of hospitalization were significantly higher ; platelet counts at admission, after the first débridement, and at the end of hospitalization were significantly lower compared with the survivor group ( p < 0.05 ). In correlation analysis, mortality rate was negatively correlated with platelet count at admission and after first débridement and positively correlated with the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and mean platelet volume after first débridement. Regarding the receiver operating characteristic curve analyses, a platelet count of 188,500/µl at admission and 196,000/µl after the first débridement, a neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio of 13.71, and a mean platelet volume of 9.25 fl after the first débridement were defined as the cutoff levels having the best sensitivities and specificities. This study suggests that platelet count at admission and platelet count, mean platelet volume, and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio after first débridement and during discharge may be included among the prognostic scores of Fournier<GPE> gangrene. The authors defined some threshold values that can be used during patient follow-up. Larger<PERSON> prospective studies are warranted to determine the exact role of those parameters in the prognosis of Fournier<GPE> gangrene. Risk<PERSON>, III<ORGANIZATION>.