 Pterygium<GPE> is a non-cancerous growth of the conjunctival tissue over the cornea that may lead to visual impairment in advanced stages, restriction of ocular motility, chronic inflammation and cosmetic concerns. Surgical removal is the treatment of choice, but recurrence of pterygium is a frequent problem. It has been previously shown that fibrin glue may result in less recurrence and may take less time than sutures for fixing the conjunctival graft in place during pterygium surgery. However, fibrin glue is a biological material and it carries the risk of transmitting infectious agents from pooled and single-donor blood donors and anaphylaxis in susceptible individuals. Cauterisation is another surgical option, and it would be advantageous to know whether cauterisation may be superior surgical option compared with fibrin glue. This protocol describes the rationale and design of the randomised controlled trial ( RCT<ORGANIZATION> ) in which we will compare cauterisation versus fibrin glue for conjunctival autografting in primary pterygium surgery. This will be a parallel group RCT<ORGANIZATION> comparing cauterisation versus fibrin glue for conjunctival autografting in primary pterygium surgery. Computer-generated randomisation will be used, and allocation concealment will be conducted using sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelopes. Surgeons will not be blinded to the procedures, but participants, other investigators and outcome assessors will be blinded. Adult participants with primary pterygium operated in a tertiary hospital in Split<GPE>, Croatia<GPE>, will be included. Primary outcome will be recurrence of pterygium, defined as any regrowth of tissue from the area of excision across the limbus onto the cornea after 180 days. The trial was approved by the ethics review board of the University Hospital Split<ORGANIZATION> ( 500-03/17-01/68 ). Results will be disseminated at conferences and through peer-reviewed publications. NCT03321201<ORGANIZATION> ; Pre-results.