  The Human<pathogen> Immunodeficiency<pathogen> Virus<pathogen> ( HIV<pathogen>) infects cells in the Central Nervous System ( CNS) , where the access of antiretrovirals and antibodies that can kill the virus may be challenging. As a result of the early HIV<pathogen> entry in the brain , infected individuals develop inflammation<symptom> and neurological deficits at various levels , which are aggravated by drugs of abuse. In the non-human primate model of HIV<pathogen> , we have previously shown that drugs of abuse such as Methamphetamine ( Meth) increase brain viral load in correlation with a higher number of CCR5-expressing myeloid cells. CCR5 is a chemokine receptor that may be involved in increasing inflammation<symptom> , but also , it is a co-receptor for viral entry into target cells. CCR5-expressing myeloid cells are the main targets of HIV<pathogen> in the CNS. Thus , the identification of factors and mechanisms that impact the expression of CCR5 in the brain is critical , as changes in CCR5 levels may affect the infection in the brain. Using a well-characterized in vitro system , with the THP1 human macrophage cell line , we have investigated the hypothesis that the expression of CCR5 is acutely affected by Meth , and examined pathways by which this effect could happen. We found that Meth plays a direct role by regulating the abundance and nuclear translocation of transcription factors with binding sites in the CCR5 promoter. However , we found that the main factor that modifies the CCR5 gene promoter at the epigenetic level towards transcription is Dopamine ( DA) , a neurotransmitter that is produced primarily in brain regions that are rich in dopaminergic neurons. In THP1 cells , the effect of DA on innate immune CCR5 transcription was mediated by DA receptors ( DRDs) , mainly DRD4. We also identified a role for DRD1 in suppressing CCR5 expression in this myeloid cell system , with potential implications for therapy. The effect of DA on innate immune CCR5 expression was also detectable on the cell surface during acute time-points , using low doses. In addition , HIV<pathogen> Tat acted by enhancing the surface expression of CCR5 , in spite of its poor effect on transcription. Overall , our data suggests that the exposure of myeloid cells to Meth in the context of presence of HIV<pathogen> peptides such as Tat , may affect the number of HIV<pathogen> targets by modulating CCR5 expression , through a combination of DA-dependent and-independent mechanisms. Other drugs that increase DA may affect similar mechanisms. The implications of these epigenetic and translational mechanisms in enhancing HIV<pathogen> infection in the brain and elsewhere are demonstrated.