  Clinical guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> ( NVAF) are available from several international cardiology associations. Patients with NVAF in the Middle<pathogen> East and North Africa ( MENA) region present unique challenges and opportunities related to differences in geography , practice patterns , and patient demographics that are as yet unaddressed in practice guidelines. This review aims to offer a practical perspective on the management of NVAF in patients in MENA and draws on evidence-based guidelines as well as real-world evidence and expert opinion. The literature was searched for relevant original research articles , systematic reviews , meta-analyses , and guideline recommendations addressing the prevention of stroke in patients with NVAF with a focus on issues relevant to the MENA region. Guideline recommendations , best practices , and expert opinion were discussed and agreed on by a working group consisting of cardiologists from across the MENA region. The incidence of stroke secondary to atrial<symptom> fibrillation<symptom> in patients across the MENA region is higher than rates reported globally , and this might be attributed to a higher incidence of vascular risk factors and underuse of anticoagulants in patients in the MENA. The available evidence supports the established role of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants ( NOACs) in the prevention of stroke in patients with NVAF. There is a consistent body of clinical trial and real-world evidence supporting their efficacy for stroke prevention in NVAF , with more favorable bleeding risk profiles relative to vitamin K antagonists , such that guidelines now recommend the use of NOACs in preference over vitamin K antagonists. There are important opportunities to improve the management of NVAF outcomes for patients with NVAF by applying evidence-based guidelines for stroke prevention. Growing experience with NOACs in the MENA region will help guide patient selection and elucidate optimal dosing strategies to maximize the clinical benefits of the NOACs.