  Patient adherence to antiretroviral therapy ( ART) is critical for HIV<pathogen> treatment success. Monitoring rates of adherence in public HIV<pathogen> outpatient care facilities can improve outcomes in Brazil where ART is universally available. We conducted a national cross-sectional survey of ART adherence in 2010. Participants were selected using a multistage probability sample. First , HIV<pathogen> outpatient care facilities were stratified according to 7 Organizational Quality Classification ( OQC) groups and regions. Second , 1 or 2 facilities were selected per region for each OQC group. Finally , patients were randomly selected at each facility. In a first component , patients were invited to answer to a web-based questionnaire ( WebAd-Q) , a validated self-reported tool that includes 3 questions on adherence to ART in the past 7 days ( time scheduling-timing , drug regimen-medication , and pill counts-dose) , herein named indicators of potential nonadherence ( IPN). In addition , a subsample of participants were interviewed in order to obtain further data on sociodemographic and clinical characteristics ( second component). The proportion of each IPN was estimated using weighted data to account for the sampling design with 95 % confidence interval ( CI) and descriptive analysis was carried out. Fifty-five facilities were chosen and 2424 patients completed the WebAd-Q in the first component of the study , while 598 patients were interviewed for the second component. The weighted proportions of the IPN were 50.9 % , 31.8 % , and 19.5 % , for timing , medication , and dose , respectively , while11 .7 % had all 3 indicators , varying from 5.9 % in the Southeast and 21.9 % in the Northeast regions. Overall , 61.1 % of the patients had at least 1 IPN ( 95 % CI: 58.5-63.7 %). Patients reporting depression<symptom> symptoms , illicit drug use and those who missed medical appointments had worse nonadherence outcomes. Overall , there was a high proportion of all indicators IPN and timing was the main component associated with low adherence. Although these indicators may not necessarily indicate individual nonadherence , they represent a worrisome scenario in the public Brazilian HIV<pathogen> care facilities. On a routine basis , these facilities can identify gaps in providing counseling and ART orientation to their clientele and develop innovative strategies to prevent nonadherence.