  HIV-infected adults have increased risk for age-related diseases and low cardiorespiratory fitness that can be prevented and improved with exercise. Yet , exercise strategies have not been well studied in older adults with HIV<pathogen> and may require substantial adaptation to this special population. To determine the safety and efficacy of aerobic exercise in older HIV-infected men in a randomized trial comparing different levels of exercise intensity. We conducted a pilot exercise trial in 22 HIV-infected men ≥ 50 years of age receiving antiretroviral therapy who were randomized 1:1 to moderate-intensity aerobic exercise ( Mod-AEX) or high-intensity aerobic exercise ( High-AEX) that was performed three times weekly for 16 weeks in a supervised setting. Primary outcome was cardiorespiratory fitness ( VO2peak) measured by treadmill testing. Secondary outcomes were exercise endurance , six-minute walk distance ( 6-MWD) , body composition measured by Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry ( DXA) , and fasting plasma levels of lipids and glucose. VO2peak increased in the High-AEX group ( 3.6 ± 1.2 mL/kg/min , p = 0.02) but not in the Mod-AEX group ( 0.4 ± 1.4 mL/kg/min , p = 0.7) with a significant between group difference ( p < 0.01). Exercise endurance increased in both the High-AEX group ( 27 ± 11 % , p = 0.02) and the Mod-AEX group ( 11 ± 4 % , p = 0.04). The 6-MWD increased in both the High-AEX ( 62 ± 18m , p = 0.01) and the Mod-AEX group ( 54 ± 14m , p = 0.01). Changes in VO2peak and 6-MWD were clinically relevant. There were no serious exercise-related adverse events. Dropouts were similar between group ( 27 % overall) and were related to joint<symptom> pain<symptom>. This pilot exercise trial demonstrates that moderate to high-intensity aerobic exercise in older HIV-infected men increases endurance and ambulatory function. However , increased cardiorespiratory fitness was observed only with high-intensity aerobic exercise despite substantial baseline impairment. Future research is needed to determine exercise strategies in older HIV-infected adults that address advanced aging and comorbidity yet are durable and feasible.