  This study aimed to demonstrate whether exposure to bifidobacteria during early life influences immunity and alleviates the risk of immunoglobulin E ( IgE)- mediated allergies in adulthood. BALB/c neonatal mice ( n = 54) were administered with a lyophilised cell preparation of Bifidobacterium<pathogen> bifidum<pathogen> TMC3115 ( TMC3115) for 3 weeks. Following the intervention , the mice were immunised with intraperitoneal ovalbumin ( OVA). The morphology and function of the intestinal epithelium were determined using histopathological examinations. Intestinal microbiota was detected using quantitative PCR and characterised using next-generation sequencing of 16S rRNA genes from faecal DNA. Caecal short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs) were measured using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Serum levels of tumour necrosis<symptom> factor ( TNF)- α , interleukin ( IL) -6 , IL-10 , and immunoglobulin E ( IgE) and the percentage of splenic CD4 + T cells were examined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and flow cytometry , respectively. TMC3115 did not significantly affect body<symptom> weight , and cause any severe systemic inflammation<symptom> or other clinical symptoms among the neonatal or adult mice , although the crypt depths and Muc2-positive cells in some intestinal segments of neonatal mice were significantly lower than control. Oral TMC3115 administration significantly increased faecal microbial diversity , relative abundance of Bacteroidetes and caecal SCFAs production in neonatal mice. Following the intervention , neonatal mice treated with TMC3115 exhibited less increase in serum IgE levels induced by OVA in adults and significantly higher TNF-α and IL-10 levels than in control. Our findings indicate that the oral administration of bifidobacteria , particularly certain strains , such as TMC3115 , during early life could alleviate the risk of IgE-mediated allergies in adult host animals. Modifications of intestinal microbiota , SCFAs metabolism and anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 production by bifidobacteria may at least in part be a key mechanism underlying the effect of bifidobacteria on the IgE-mediated immune sensitivity of hosts to attacks by allergens at both neonatal and adult stages.