  Sijunzi decoction ( SJZD) is a classic recipe in traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM) to strengthen the spleen and replenish Qi. It is well known for treating disorders of gastrointestinal function manifested in poor appetite<symptom> , reduced food intake and loose stools<symptom>. Polysaccharide is the most abundant constituent and the major effective component in SJZD. The present study aimed to understand the immunomodulatory mechanism of S-3-1 , a homogeneous polysaccharide purified from SJZD with immune-enhancement activity , by investigating its effects on human intestinal microbes and short chain fatty acids. S-3-1 was incubated with simulated gastric juice , intestinal juice , and human fecal microflora independently and sequentially. The concentrations of total polysaccharide and reducing sugar were measured to identify the stability of independently and sequentially incubated S-3-1 in three in vitro fermentation models. Gas chromatograph ( GC) analysis was used to measure the short chain fatty acid ( SCFA) contents in human fecal samples. The human gut microbiota composition was measured by 16S rRNA gene Illumina MiSeq sequencing ( V3-V4 region). S-3-1 was degraded in three in vitro fermentation models separately and sequentially. Both S-3-1 and incubated S-3-1 could regulate the abundances of Lactobacillus , Pediococcus , Streptococcus<pathogen> , Bacteroides , Enterococcus<pathogen> , Clostridium<pathogen> and Dorea in human intestinal microflora samples. Specifically , S-3-1 could only regulate the abundances of Paraprevotella and Oscillospira , while the influenced flora changed to Butyricimonas , Coprococcus , Dialister<pathogen> , Sutterella , Ruminococcus and Parabacteroides<pathogen> after sequential incubation of S-3-1. In contrast to S-3-1 showing no influence on the content of SCFA , incubated S-3-1 showed increased contents of acetic acid and total acid that were associated with its effects on the abundances of Enterococcus<pathogen> , Sutterella , Butyricimonas and Streptococcus<pathogen>. S-3-1 plays an immunomodulatory role by regulating the abundances of 9 intestinal bacteria genera. Incubated S-3-1 can regulate more bacteria genera , a total of 13 kinds , and can adjust the SCFA content to affect immunomodulation. Incubation with gastric and intestinal juices enhanced S-3-1 's capability of modulating the intestinal flora composition and decreased the bacteria 's need for a carbon source. This study could provide new insights for studies on the pharmacological mechanisms of polysaccharides in vitro.