  Administration of botulinum<pathogen> neurotoxin A ( BoNT-A) to the ankle plantar flexors<symptom> in patients with hemiplegia reduces the strength of knee extension , which may decrease their walking ability. Studies have reported improvements in walking ability with physical therapy following BoNT-A administration. However , no previous studies have evaluated from an exercise physiology perspective the efficacy of physical therapy after BoNT-A administration for adult patients with hemiplegia. To investigate the effects of physical therapy following BoNT-A administration on gait electromyography for patients with hemiparesis<symptom> secondary to stroke. Non-randomized controlled trial. Single center. Thirty-five patients with chronic stroke with spasticity were assigned to BoNT-A monotherapy ( n = 18) or BoNT-A plus physical therapy ( PT) ( n = 17). On the paralyzed side of the body , 300 single doses of BoNT-A were administered intramuscularly to the ankle plantar flexors<symptom>. Physical therapy was performed for 2 weeks , starting from the day after administration. Gait electromyography was performed and gait parameters were measured immediately before and 2 weeks after BoNT- A administration. Relative muscle activity , co-activation indices , and walking time/distance were calculated for each phase. For patients who received BoNT-A monotherapy , soleus activity during the loading response decreased 2 weeks after the intervention ( p < 0.01). For those who received BoNT-A + PT , biceps femoris activity and knee co-activation index during the loading response and tibialis anterior activity during the pre-swing phases increased , whereas soleus and rectus<pathogen> femoris activities during the swing phase decreased 2 weeks after the intervention ( p < 0.05). These rates of change were significantly greater than those for patients who received BoNT-A monotherapy ( p < 0.05). Following BoNT-A monotherapy , soleus activity during the stance phase decreased and walking ability either remained unchanged or deteriorated. Following BoNT-A + PT , muscle activity and knee joint stability increased during the stance phase , and abnormal muscle activity during the swing phase was suppressed. If botulinum<pathogen> treatment of the ankle plantar flexors<symptom> in stroke patients is targeted to those with low knee extension strength , or if it aims to improve leg swing on the paralyzed side of the body , then physical therapy following BoNT-A administration could be an essential part of the treatment strategy.