  Piglets can often suffer impaired antioxidant status and poor immune response during post-weaning , especially when chronic inflammation<symptom> takes place , leading to lower growth rates than expected. Oral administration of dietary antioxidant compounds during this period could be a feasible way to balance oxidation processes and increase health and growth performance. The aim of the trial was to study the effects of an antioxidant feed supplement ( melon pulp concentrate) that contains high concentration of the antioxidant superoxide dismutase ( SOD) on inflammation<symptom> , antioxidant status and growth performance of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS) challenged weaned piglets. In total , 48 weaned piglets were individually allocated to four experimental groups in a 2 × 2 factorial design for 29 days. Two different dietary treatments were adopted: ( a) control ( CTR) , fed a basal diet , ( b) treatment ( MPC) , fed the basal diet plus 30 g/ton of melon pulp concentrate. On days 19 , 21 , 23 and 25 half of the animals within CTR and MPC groups were subjected to a challenge with intramuscular injections of an increasing dosage of LPS from Escherichia<pathogen> coli<pathogen> ( serotype 0.55: B5) ( +) or were injected with an equal amount of PBS solution (-). Blood samples were collected at the beginning of the trial and under the challenge period for interleukin 1β , interleukin 6 , tumour necrosis<symptom> factor α , haptoglobin , plasma SOD activity , total antioxidant capacity , reactive oxygen species , red blood cells and plasma resistance to haemolysis , and 8-oxo-7 , 8-dihydro-2 '- deoxyguanosine. Growth performance was evaluated weekly. A positive effect of melon pulp concentrate was evidenced on total antioxidant capacity , half-haemolysis time of red blood cells , average daily gain ( ADG) and feed intake , while LPS challenge increased pro-inflammatory cytokines and haptoglobin serum concentrations , with a reduced feed intake and gain: feed ( G: F). The obtained results show that oral SOD supplementation with melon pulp concentrate ameliorates the total antioxidant capacity and the half-haemolysis time in red blood cell of post-weaning piglets , with positive results on growing performance.