  Background and purpose Botulinum<pathogen> toxin type A ( BoNT-A) has antinociceptive and muscle-relaxant properties. The objectives of this study were to investigate the efficacy and safety of a single BoNT-A ( Dysport ®) treatment in myofascial back pain. Methods In this randomized , open-label , multicenter study , adults with myofascial lower back pain received Dysport ® injections at four trigger points ( 60,80 or 120 units per injection point). Patients were followed for 12 weeks. The a priori primary endpoint was a pooled evaluation , at Week 6 , of seven measures of efficacy , including pain intensity ( patient diary) , modified Pain Disability Index ( PDI) score , use of interfering concomitant analgesics , and patient-rated global efficacy. Optional assessments of pressure thresholds and tissue compliance were conducted. Safety was also assessed. Results A total of 202 patients were randomized to treatment and 189 patients received a low ( n = 57) , medium ( n = 57) , or high ( n = 75) total dose of Dysport ® at 34 centers in Germany between October 2002 and October 2003. All treated patients were included in the safety population; 8 patients were excluded from the intention-to-treat population. Patients had moderate to severe<symptom> pain<symptom> at baseline. At baseline , 120 patients were receiving concomitant analgesic therapy; 6.7 % , 74.2 % and 19.2 % were considered to cause mild , moderate and severe interference with pain measurements , respectively. There was no difference between doses for the a priori combined primary endpoint. Patient-reported pain intensity scores at rest and on movement decreased significantly after treatment for all groups combined ( p < 0.0001 at all visits). At Week 6 , reductions in pain intensity at rest were 29 % , 19 % and 26 % for the low- , medium- and high-dose groups , respectively; reductions in pain intensity on movement were 27 % , 18 % and 26 % , respectively. Overall , patients who reported pain intensity reductions at Week 6 were evident within 3 weeks of treatment and were maintained for the 12 weeks of the study. In the total population , significant decreases in mean PDI sum scores from baseline were observed from Week 3 and were maintained through to the end of treatment ( Week 12); no differences between the dose groups were observed. Pressure thresholds and tissue compliance also increased during the study. Adverse events were generally as expected for BoNT-A; the majority were mild or moderate in severity. Conclusions Dysport ® treatment was associated with reductions in myofascial back pain and was well tolerated. Nodose-response relationship was observed; treatment with Dysport ® using a four-trigger-point injection protocol at 60 units per trigger point was associated with a clinically relevant and statistically significant improvement in pain and pain-related disability; there was no additional benefit from the higher doses. Implications Our findings are limited by the lack of a control group and further research is warranted to confirm the value of Dysport ® for the treatment of myofascial back pain and confirm the optimum dosing in this indication.