  Plastics are ubiquitous anthropogenic contaminants that are a growing concern in aquatic environments. The ecological implications of macroplastics pollution are well documented , but less is known about nanoplastics. The current study investigates the potential adverse effects of nanoplastics , which likely contribute to the ecological burden of plastic pollution. To this end , we examined whether a dietary exposure of adult zebrafish ( Danio<pathogen> rerio<pathogen> to polystyrene nanoparticles ( PS NPs) could lead to the transfer of nanoplastics to the offspring , and whether nanoplastics exposure affects zebrafish physiology. Specifically , adult female and male zebrafish ( F0 generation) were exposed to PS NPs via diet for one week and bred to produce the F1 generation. Four F1 groups were generated: control ( unexposed females and males) , maternal ( exposed females) , paternal ( exposed males) , and co-parental ( exposed males and females). Co-parental PS NP exposure did not significantly affect reproductive success. Assessment of tissues from F0 fish revealed that exposure to PS NPs significantly reduced glutathione reductase activity in brain , muscle , and testes , but did not affect mitochondrial function parameters in heart or gonads. Assessment of F1 embryos and larvae revealed that PS NPs were present in the yolk sac , gastrointestinal tract , liver , and pancreas of the maternally and co-parentally exposed F1 embryos/larvae. Bradycardia<symptom> was also observed in embryos from maternal and co-parental exposure groups. In addition , the activity of glutathione reductase and the levels of thiols were reduced in F1 embryos/larvae from maternal and/or co-parental exposure groups. Mitochondrial function and locomotor activity were not affected in F1 larvae. This study demonstrates that ( i) PS NPs are transferred from mothers to offspring , and ( ii) exposure to PS NPs modifies the antioxidant system in adult tissues and F1 larvae. We conclude that PS NPs could bioaccumulate and be passed on to the offspring , but this does not lead to major physiological disturbances.